 Restaurant critics are supposed to be impartial, but I can't help feeling some proprietary interest in Tavern on the Green . Not a financial interest, except insofar as a profitable Tavern is good for the city's budget, which, in a fractions-of-pennies way, is good for me as a grumpy taxpayer. It's more like a civic interest. Tavern on the Green belongs to the city and sits inside the most beautiful public park in which I've ever rowed, cycled, struck out in softball, misidentified a confusing fall warbler and illegally consumed alcoholic beverages. I'd let the city keep those fractional pennies if that helped Tavern on the Green live up to its setting. So you may detect an extra cup or two of enthusiasm in my voice when I say that under its new management , the building is woven into the life of the park more fully than in its last incarnation, a wedding-cake palace as imagined by a 6-year-old princess with a high fever. And you may hear a few teaspoons of added regret when I say that it's not a good restaurant yet by any measure. The place reopened just two months ago , which may not be enough time to get a 700-seat Winnebago like Tavern up to highway speed. In time, the kitchen may figure out how to get plates on the table while they are still hot. The chef, Katy Sparks , may rethink some of the overworked, underdelivering recipes. The hosts may learn how to read their reservations screen so they don't tell a customer he's the first to arrive and ask him to wait while the rest of his party is already in the restaurant's inner recesses, wondering if he's gone for a carriage ride. Somebody may tell the servers not to drop the check while people are still eating dessert. The sommeliers may turn down the thermostat so that red wines aren't the temperature of a kiddie pool. Still, compared with its last days before its death from insolvency in 2009 made it the subject of countless dry-eyed eulogies, Tavern on the Green is much, much improved. One of its real joys is seeing the exuberant Victorian building, constructed in 1871 as a dormitory for the grass-munching residents of Sheep Meadow, restored down to the last copper drainpipe. The snaggletoothed slate roof has been to the orthodontist. The Parks Department, determined to end the Tavern's sparkly isolation, tore down the Crystal Room, which used to galumph halfway across the courtyard. The Berlin Wall of giant topiary animals that blocked the view of Sheep Meadow is gone, too. Now if you eat on the terrace, you can see the runners and the pedicab drivers on West Drive, and they can see you. The restaurant's new operators, Jim Caiola and David Salama , have tried to put the tavern back into the Tavern. Ms. Sparks's plates are substantial, and any leanings toward fanciness are confined to the perimeters of the plate. The menu does not say, "Aunt Althea's 80th birthday" as much as it says: "Hi there. If you happen to be going to Lincoln Center, don't forget about me!" The glittering, un-tavernlike interior encrustations have been scraped off. Next to the entrance is a bar shaped like a racetrack next to a convincing artificial marble fireplace flanked by carved rams' heads. It's dark and reassuring, just the kind of sheltered saloon you'd want to end up in after working up a thirst in the park. In the main dining room, though, the tavern motif explodes in a whiteout. Everything is bright and off-white: tables, chairs, banquettes, floors. It looks like the indoor-outdoor, all-day, casual-dining option at a family-friendly resort in Florida. The servers have the determined enthusiasm of counselors poached from a summer camp in Maine and given a crash course in big-city restaurant customs during the bus ride down Interstate 95. One of them thought everything we did and said was "wonderful": our clever preference for sparkling water over still, our bold decision to look at dessert menus. Another picked up a few crumbs from the leather-topped table with his fingertips, then left the rest. Somebody showed up the instant the plates had been set down to ask brightly, "How does everything look?" I can't blame her for not asking how it tasted. The answer may have made it hard to stay chipper. Prying tiny quail bones away from meat that was griddled until it was as dry as a week-old English muffin wasn't very wonderful. Neither was the greasy scattering of mushrooms and gummy, flavorless farro strozzapreti baked under a mound of ricotta that had no idea it was supposed to act like a sauce. The ceviches aren't ceviches; they're rough-sawn carpaccios of seafood covered with garnishes that are either thuggish (harsh pickled onions and acrid, stale fried garlic chips on yellowfin tuna) or useless (avocado lumps on salmon). Then acid is thrown at them. The directive seems to be: terminate with extreme prejudice. Is it too late to bring back the sheep? No, no. Patience. Maybe the food, which isn't especially ornate, still needs to come down a notch or two. The pork chop could lose the stringy, sour, half-raw roasted rhubarb. The brisket in a sweetish barbecue sauce, which you'd be happy enough to find at your local brew pub, could do without the comatose potato salad. And the menu would be easier to handle if Ms. Sparks didn't organize it by heat source. ("I don't really care what I eat, as long as it was cooked on a plancha!") The most enjoyable dishes tend to be the simplest. The Serrano ham and melted Gruyère sandwich was totally likable, which is my clever way of saying it was fried in butter. I couldn't taste any wood smoke in the hearth-roasted mussels, but they were tender and flavorful in their Spanish-leaning sauce of garlic and chopped almonds. The $56 strip steak was excellent, too, although it probably helped that it was the only main course that arrived hot that night. (It is by far the most expensive of what the menu calls "large plates." The others hover around $30, which might squeak by as reasonable for dinner in the park if the cooking didn't get away from the cooks so often.) The prize dessert is also the most modest: the birthday cake. White and soft, with whipped ricotta between the layers and whipped cream on top, it's exactly what a plain-vanilla American layer cake should be. The other desserts are fine, but they could learn a thing or two from it. The berry shortcake needs a richer, creamier biscuit, and if the fudgelike brownies want to graduate to sundae status, they deserve more than a single scoop of ice cream. The best of my four meals at Tavern on the Green was brunch at a shady table in the courtyard, where I watched Sheep Meadow slowly fill up with weekend layabouts. The food wasn't so wonderful that it would lure crowds, but it wouldn't keep them away, either. No doubt the restaurant is aiming higher than that, but it wouldn't be a bad place to begin. 