 "The chef calls this one the gun, because it hits you," our server at Cagen said promisingly as she set the night's last bite, a stubby little handroll, on the table. Glossy and dark, it looked, if you had a suggestible turn of mind, something like the barrel of a snub-nose revolver, with a metallic sheen it got from its seaweed wrapper, a rare blend of green and black kelp. The gunpowder was inside: an extra-hot, nostril-punishing slug of wasabi implanted alongside strands of sweet squash, waiting to go off when I bit into it. The maker of this nifty loaded firearm is Toshio Tomita, the chef and owner of Cagen, which opened last summer in the East Village. Mr. Tomita worked for 16 years for Nobu Matsuhisa , and he has his mentor's ability to bend Japanese tradition in his own directions. If you've tasted the shiso chimichurri at Nobu , you won't be surprised to hear that Mr. Tomita serves it with sashimi at Cagen, but this is his own version, made not just with shiso but also with wild Japanese wild ginger, yuzu juice and more than a little jalapeño. Next to it is a dish of soy cooked with mirin, but it was the chimichurri I kept coming back to, basting it on pliant slices of skipjack, sea robin or suzuki, the Japanese sea bass. One minute Mr. Tomita will do the unadorned, noninterventionist thing you expect from a Japanese chef. His ingredients, especially the fish he brings in from Japan, are often exceptional. Three broiled fillets of ayu, a Japanese trout, wore nothing but their shimmering skins, the better to show off their delicate freshwater taste. The next he will throw a curve. A plate of small appetizers offered ham deep-fried katsu style with a splotch of Worcestershire on its panko crust, along with a single mouthful of the Nobu classic, miso-marinated black cod, as irresistible as ever. But then there were two little flavor bombs of grape tomato halves barely cooked in white wine and yuzu. Were they pickles or candied fruit, or both? Either way, I wanted more. And what was inside this little paper parcel secured with a twist-tie? A pea-size speck of goat cheese, white chocolate and wasabi. It tasted like an after-dinner mint from another planet. Cagen inhabits the empty shell left behind by Kajitsu when it moved to Midtown . Kajitsu specializes in the vegan cuisine of Japan's Zen temples, and the two basement-level dining rooms of the East Village original had a monastic severity; the walls were coated with sand from Kyoto, and everything else followed that color scheme. Mr. Tomita appears to have moved in and gotten right down to work, without putting too much energy into redecorating. Time has not brightened the interior's subterranean charms, which could use a fresh coat of good cheer. You notice this more at the tables than you do at the counter, where Mr. Tomita's samurai intensity supplies extra atmosphere. Cagen is a kappo ryori restaurant, in which the chef prepares most of the food facing the diners across a counter. (Mr. Tomita's son, Rei, works on hot dishes out of sight in the kitchen.) You can pick a path across the à la carte menu or just free-fall with a seven-course, $120 omakase meal. It's a question of budget and time, but the big splurge shows off all the things Cagen does very well: sashimi with that nervy chimichurri, sushi wrapped in grilled seaweed that crackles like autumn leaves, and zaru soba, served as three small ponytail bunches of cool soba noodles. The first is plain, the next is dusted with yuzu peel, the last is freckled with kuro shichimi, the black seven-spice blend. They all get dunked in a soy dipping sauce. When they're gone, you get a pitcher of the hot, cloudy water they were cooked in, for pouring into the dipping sauce. Good as this fancy Cup-a-Soup was, I always wished I had more of the firm, nutty noodles. Then I would look over the counter at the two matching stones that grind each day's soba flour out of whole buckwheat. Each stone is the size of a birdbath and they are powered by hand -- Mr. Tomita's hands. The thought of all that labor was the only thing that stopped me from asking for seconds. *** Given the rate at which Michael White's Altamarea Group spits out restaurants these days, this column has adopted a new policy. The amount of time spent critiquing each Altamarea place will be proportional to the time Altamarea spent coming up with the idea. This review of Ristorante Morini, open since December, will be brief. The name, a tribute to Mr. White's mentor in the kitchen, has been used before, at Osteria Morini , which this new restaurant doesn't resemble in any way. The downtown osteria serves the fun, lusty food of Emilia-Romagna, while the ristorante, on the Upper East Side, is not defined by Italian geography or, really, much of anything. The website promises "pan-Italian regional cuisine with a menu that covers various seasonal specialties, both inland and coastal." Well, that narrows it down. The menu is most similar to that at Mr. White's Marea , and while seafood isn't the only choice, in my experience it tended to outshine other options, like the fine but slightly dull sage-roasted chicken or short rib braised in red wine. Main courses were mostly memorable for their prices, which start at $35 and inflate from there. But dull dishes are rare. Gordon Finn, the executive chef, is turning out the most carefully prepared and well-considered food that the Altamarea Group has given New York since Ai Fiori opened in 2010. You should get an excellent meal if you stick to the cured and raw crudi, like the wonderful bay scallops with bits of pink grapefruit and dots of pistachio purée; the pastas, which are as good as they are at any Michael White restaurant, which is to say they are as good as at any place in the city; and dessert, overseen by Altamarea's corporate pastry chef, Robert Truitt. What you won't get is a solid argument for going there and not to another Altamarea subsidiary. If you want refined, expensive seafood, you can get it in much more attractive surroundings at Marea. Inside Ristorante Morini's split-level space, the chandeliers look like grotesque experiments in stretched skin, and the artwork is the type that speaks eloquently of corporate tax write-offs. Ristorante Morini hasn't bestirred itself to become a unique destination; it seems to want nothing more than a piece of the action in a neighborhood whose residents proved long ago that they don't mind overpaying for pasta. 