 Another week, another Japanese-Venetian restaurant. All'onda is the name, and in truth it's not quite like any other place, although it's not as far-out as the elevator pitch makes it sound, either. The space glows with warm invitation to passers-by on East 13th Street, who can see the communal table and bar downstairs and, through second-story windows, the main dining room. Inside, there are no terrifying beasts with Japanese heads grafted onto Italian torsos, no teriyaki calf's liver or soba pesto. There is nothing terrifying at all. Chris Jaeckle's cooking at All'onda is recognizably and elegantly Italian, and for the most part it's wonderful stuff. Mr. Jaeckle is a sophisticated chef whose marriage of Ligurian and French-Mediterannean cooking at Ai Fiori , under the guidance of Michael White, helped the restaurant win three stars from The New York Times in 2011. At All'onda, he has teamed up with the restaurateur Jeffrey Chodorow. The relationship between the two cuisines at All'onda is less a marriage than an infatuation. It's as if an Italian menu had a raging crush on Japan and couldn't stop bringing it up in conversation. Most of this is done so smoothly, you hardly notice. Black truffle risotto, slick with Parmesan and butter, would strike you as old school if you didn't know that Mr. Jaeckle finishes it with the rice mash left over when sake is fermented. The Japanese ingredient adds a rounded, softly fruity flavor that quietly works its way into the risotto. Far more prominent are the flecks of winter truffles, whose aroma, part onion and part animal, goes directly from your nostrils to your brain. Long quills of garganelli are tossed with chunks of sweet crab and toasted bread crumbs. It's all very classic, as is the warm spiciness that lifts up the pasta. But the source of the spice is yuzu kosho, the Japanese condiment fermented from yuzu peel and a weaponized dose of chiles. The way Mr. Jaeckle uses it, though, nearly convinced me that yuzu kosho should be sold at Eataly . As usual with crushes, the object of affection occasionally comes up in a context so strained you have to roll your eyes. All'onda's winning dark chocolate tart grew menacing when it came with a salty scoop of soy gelato. And the most regrettable dish I ate was an ill-advised twist on tortellini in brodo, in which the pasta parcels stuffed with unmelted cheese sat in a gelatinous, lukewarm and indistinct stock made from Parmesan and dashi. Other slight misfires can't be blamed on Japan. The aged-duck ragù with bent tubes of pasta called lumache simply needed more depth, as if the soffritto had not been caramelized enough, and the very dark chocolate in the ragù and around the rim of the plate didn't cover the deficit. For the most part, though, good sense and good taste prevail. All'onda just opened in early January, and already Mr. Jaeckle has come up with two dishes so appealing that he will have a fight on his hands if he tries to take them off the menu. First, there is the bucatini with sea urchin. Sea urchin pasta is so popular now, it will probably turn up on the menu at the Olive Garden before the year is over, but Mr. Jaeckle has done something novel and delicious with it. The urchin is cold-smoked, which makes it something like briny bacon and, when folded into egg yolks, cream and garlic, makes the rest of the dish something like spaghetti carbonara from the deep. The first time I had it, the bucatini were too soft and doughy, but the next time they had the proper snap to offset their creamy sauce. And there is the short rib for two. The side dish of saffron risotto calls osso buco to mind, but this is not another brown, sticky braise. It's cooked sous vide for three days until the meat is glistening pink-red with veins of rich fat inside, then grilled to give it a spicy black crust. It looks like pastrami, and I can't get it out of my mind. As has been widely reported, New York law now requires raw seafood appetizers in all Italian restaurants. The ones here are generally very good, like hamachi in a soy sauce bath with strands of pickled kuri squash and tiny cubes of peperoncini. Among the main courses there is not one that isn't well thought out, from the skate under a veal glaze to the guinea hen, separated into a roasted breast and confitted leg beneath a naturally sweet purée of parsnips. Like many new restaurants, All'onda isn't strong across the board. Service can be rushed and not exactly polished, and I can't say the soy gelato was the only disappointing so-called sweet. Affogato is no treat when the espresso tastes charred and the ice cream has big ice crystals. Panna cotta flavored with Fernet-Branca is an oddity that would be easier to bear if it were a palate cleanser before a real dessert arrives. Until All'onda gets the rest of its lineup in shape, the dense and lightly crunchy olive oil cake is your best hope. Despite the risks, All'onda is fun and lively enough that I can imagine dropping in once a month or so for a short-rib reunion. This is late-period Chodorow, with the nightclub grandiosity stripped away. The dining room staff looks almost ostentatiously casual -- none more than Chris Cannon. New Yorkers who remember Mr. Cannon in a stiffly knotted necktie standing at attention behind the host stands at Marea , Convivio , Alto or Palio won't recognize him here, where he works as a consultant. He lopes beneath the exposed rafters outfitted in jeans, a plaid shirt, a quilted vest and a backward wool cap. With a dead rabbit or two over his shoulder, he'd look like an Italian winemaker coming back from a hunting trip. If he lopes to your table, get him started about wine. He knows who makes the good stuff in Italy, and laid the foundation for the wine list before Nathan Rawlinson took it over. The list doesn't trawl for big spenders the way some of Mr. Cannon's others have, but many of the bottles taste more expensive than they are. Especially impressive is the carefully edited selection of affordable nebbiolos and the range of 40 sparkling wines, which makes welcome detours beyond prosecco. There's a bit of sake, too, as there is in all the best Japanese-Venetian places. 