 Jean-Georges is still a four-star restaurant. That is all. Thank you for your time. On second thought, there may be a little more to say. Because great restaurants can fade fast, especially these days, and Jean-Georges Vongerichten's serene flagship serves a city vastly different from the one it set out to dazzle and seduce 17 years ago last month. Back then, Jean-Georges was a radical reimagining of the grand style of French dining, "an entirely new kind of four-star restaurant," as Ruth Reichl put it in her review for The New York Times. Jean-Georges didn't just blow the dust off the candelabra; it tossed them out. In a room that was all right angles and Manhattan energy, men and women servers (a rarity in formal restaurants then) circulated with unfussy, level, American poise. Most of all there was the brilliant cooking, which was lighter, brighter and more embracing of other cultures than French food had any right to be. What we want from restaurants is changing, though, along with our notions of luxury. The kind of comfort Jean-Georges excels at providing makes some diners distinctly uncomfortable. Chefs who couldn't peel a banana when Jean-Georges Vongerichten got his first four-star review ( for Lafayette , in 1988) now run adventurous, unluxurious dining rooms where people come for the journey and where the thrill of the ride is more important than the condition of the shock absorbers. Jean-Georges glides like a Mercedes sedan, but Mr. Vongerichten takes the curves like a Formula One driver. Consider the squab dish that just popped up on the menu. It comes on like jerk chicken, coated in a blackened rub, and while the seasonings are Middle Eastern, the searing heat is almost Jamaican. And here comes the creative leap that separates Mr. Vongerichten from other spice-peddlers: a hot sauce has been splashed around this charred squab, and it is made from flowers. A bright-orange blend of lime, fresh red chiles and peppery nasturtium petals, it makes the already fiery squab into what may be the spiciest dish ever served in a French restaurant. Over and over, Mr. Vongerichten takes risks that are almost shocking. A little canal dredged into a pool of sweet parsnip purée is filled with a fruity riesling raisin vinegar, straight up. Taste it alone and you pucker, but swirl it into the parsnips with a forkful of meltingly soft Arctic char under an airy black-truffle crust, and it's spectacular. In the same vein, the buttermilk sauce under red sea bream sashimi or the unsweetened lemon mousse with raw sea trout and roe are almost acidic enough on their own to clean copper pots. Taste a little of everything, though, and the sourness takes its place and galvanizes the rest. There's not much sleight-of-hand in Mr. Vongerichten's cooking. Nearly everything is visible, and the effects can still take you by surprise. Won tons stuffed with grilled foie gras are squirted, somewhat randomly, with a spiced red-wine reduction, but what makes the dish take off are the tart, crunchy passion-fruit seeds and the raw papaya chunks livened up with a dab of lime gel. This skill for getting the greatest impact from just a few components is Mr. Vongerichten's foremost talent. Most of the time, you couldn't take something away from one of his dishes without hurting the whole. This is why so many of his classics still jump with energy; they're not dragged down by pointless ornamentation. Was the sweet sea urchin with slivers of green chile and drops of yuzu on a tongue of black bread invented last week, or last century? What about that intensely aromatic lobster sauce seasoned with fenugreek and lemon grass that surrounds lobster on toast? Or the chicken with the Parmesan crust that stays crunchy for an improbably long time, even after crumbs have fallen into the lemon-butter sauce that has more lemon and more balance than ought to be possible? If you are having your first $118 four-course dinner at Jean-Georges, you won't always know. Regulars will, though. And they may start to wonder, along with me, how many of Mr. Vongerichten's new dishes are as indelible as his greatest hits? I couldn't imagine improving on any of the six savory dishes I enjoyed on a $198 tasting menu of classics. They had all snapped into place for good. The only dish on a spring tasting (same night, same length, same price) that I could pay the same compliment to were the stout asparagus stalks under morels in hollandaise, and I recall people rhapsodizing about them in 1997. This could become a danger to Jean-Georges's pre-eminence. Mr. Vongerichten and his business partner, Phil Suarez, run a company that is responsible for 22 restaurants around the world. Diners tend to worry about this empire-building in terms of quality control: Does the food suffer when the head of state is traveling? It can, even at Jean-Georges. At a recent lunch while Mr. Vongerichten was in Japan, a salmon tartare spring roll, one of the three little bites that opened the meal, wasn't crisp enough to stand up to its lettuce wrap, and the fish was barely seasoned. Gulf shrimp in an appetizer were overpowered by the heavily toasted flavors of fried artichokes and mushrooms, and a lemon-fennel aioli lacked the verve to pull it all together. These were blips, though, well within the standard deviation for one of New York's most daring and high-performing kitchens. In the long run, the greater question is whether Mr. Vongerichten is channeling more of his creativity into building new restaurants than into building dishes that might run 10 years from now on the classics menu at Jean-Georges. Because each dessert is made of several mini-desserts that riff on a single theme, it's hard to tell whether any of them has the staying power of the molten chocolate cake. (It has a permanent spot on the chocolate-themed dessert, and remains better than its imitators.) But as constructed by the pastry chef, Joseph Murphy , almost all of them are deeply, instantly lovable. For anyone feeling left behind by the current fashion for scattershot, disputatious desserts, Mr. Murphy's citrus tasting -- with its tiny, crisp strudel filled with candied kumquats and pistachios, and its plush, delicately floral citron snow and citrus sections over amber riesling jelly -- is an answered prayer. The wine list is book-length. But it is unusually nimble, built for versatility. The chief sommelier, Laura Williamson , has a bottle up her sleeve for any trick the kitchen might pull. Listening to her or one of her colleagues suggest a wine can be a quick, thoughtful education in the principles of pairing. The rest of the dining room staff has the original poise and unfawning attentiveness, but servers can seem remote. Smiles bloom beside some tables, but not all. Lately some top-tier restaurants have invented a new style of service that is seamless, intuitive, guided by a species of emotional intelligence. Jean-Georges hasn't quite evolved. Examples are so minor that they may sound petty, but here's one. A guest of mine approached the reception desk, a sci-fi podium populated by a row of three or four humans with unnervingly perfect teeth, at the same time as two other diners. A host tried to pair them off: "Are you two together?" Um, no. Another attempt was made: "Are you two together?" Unless Mr. Vongerichten is trying to run a matchmaking service, there are smoother ways to begin. The game can always be played at a higher level. That is the challenge for any restaurant that wants to shine among the striving competition. And Jean-Georges does shine. The restaurant was redesigned in graceful, gentle curves by the architect Thomas Juul-Hansen in 2008 (two years after Frank Bruni's four-star review, its last evaluation in The Times) and is the most elegant modern dining room in the city. The enormous windows let in the setting sun, and sometimes they catch the moon rising over the treetops in Central Park. You are in the city and hovering slightly outside it all at once. Then the food arrives, the flavors fall into their startling alignments, and there is only one place you could be: Jean-Georges. 