 Gather around the old Victrola, kids. Grandpa wants to tell you a story about wealth, power, real estate, pornography, carrots and a sweet-faced dairy cow named Narcissa. About 90 miles north of Manhattan is a 76-acre triangle of land on the Hudson River whose owners over the centuries have acted out the history, in stop-frame animation, of social power in New York. When Dutch families ran half of the Hudson Valley, it was farmed by the son of a settler from the Netherlands. He sold the place to one of the Livingstons, an aristocratic Scottish family who ran the other half. As Gilded Age capitalists crashed New York society, the property was bought by William B. Dinsmore, a founder of a company that was the U.P.S. of the Civil War era , but with stagecoaches instead of brown vans. The Dinsmores had a Gatsbyesque time there, entertaining trainloads of weekend guests with a private golf course and a greenhouse full of orchids . Pipe down, I'm getting to the porn. There are always fun new ways to get rich in America, and in the prolonged group grope between the invention of the Pill and the Meese Report , Bob Guccione got rich by printing photos of Penthouse pets, who exposed things that the blushing Playmates didn't. With his earnings, Mr. Guccione bought the old Dinsmore estate. But when we chased pornography off our streets and onto our laptops, Mr. Guccione wasn't rich any more, and his country retreat was seized by creditors. Now we save our soft-focus pictures for pork chops, and restaurants are one of the last places where moaning in public is still acceptable. So of course the person who bought the property at auction is a restaurateur, André Balazs . Renaming the estate Locusts-on-Hudson, Mr. Balazs rents it out for weddings ( the website tastefully passes over the gold-chained Guccione years) and farms the land again. Today it is home to vegetable plots, laying hens and a retired cow, Narcissa. She gave her name to Mr. Balazs's latest restaurant, inside his Standard East Village hotel, and her moony eyes look down at the dining room from framed photographs. Narcissa the cow has no role in the restaurant's rib-eye steak, but the farm is supposed to help in other ways. Last fall, Narcissa's chef, John Fraser, started planning this summer's menu by choosing the vegetables he wanted from illustrated seed catalogs. These books, he said, were "food porn in and of themselves." Whether teenage boys will hide pictures of undressed kohlrabi under their mattresses remains to be seen, but Mr. Fraser has already come up with one of the year's most photographed carrots. A take on beef Wellington, it has salt-cured roasted carrots inside the puff pastry where the meat should go. It's a startling success. The carrots are tender without a trace of mushiness, and a walnut paste darkened with cocoa and coffee gives them a brooding, bittersweet depth. Mr. Fraser is known for his refined, thought-out vegetable tasting menus at Dovetail , on the Upper West Side. His vegetable plates at Narcissa are more unbuttoned and generous. They're complex, but in a relaxed way that fits this casual, many-things-to-many-people dining room, where tables of chef chasers sit next to narrow-waisted colts who look as if they get their nutrients from air kisses. Beets are spit-roasted for hours until their outsides are charred like grilled steak and the insides have a focused, waterless intensity; then they're lightly crushed into deep-ruby hunks that drink up a horseradish crème fraîche. Plum-size sweet potatoes go on the rotisserie, too, getting a hot allspice-heavy jerk sauce completely right for their sugary flesh, which can taste flabby on its own. This kitchen knows how to build a salad, mixing vinaigrettes that have a switchblade edge and tossing in sophisticated-hippie handfuls of sunflower seeds (with saucerlike leaves of brussels sprouts) or crunchy chopped pistachios (in the mixed-greens Narcissa's salad). Side dishes are often a crass adventure in check-padding. That's not the case at Narcissa, although the carrot fries -- overdone carrots in a greasy battered shell -- just made me miss the Wellington. (This is why magicians never repeat a trick.) But I could eat Narcissa's steamed new potatoes in green garlic and olive oil all summer long, and I wish steakhouses would steal its "supergreen spinach," wilted leaves folded into a béchamel-fortified purée that has a Sprite-bottle gleam. I'm giving these vegetables lingering close-ups because they have a swaggering originality that the meat and seafood rarely match. Hake with a south-of-France trio of tapenade, oranges and artichokes, and a poussin the size of a mango with legs, in a vaguely truffled chicken reduction, were extremely pleasant, but wouldn't get Narcissa noticed on their own. Other dishes seemed designed for jet-lagged hotel guests who don't want any back-talk from their dinner, like the not-quite-juicy roasted branzino with a standard-issue salsa verde. Mr. Fraser could use a few more main courses like the steamed black sea bass, which worked up some excitement -- an uphill battle for steamed fish -- by means of a toasty coconut-curry broth and hollow cross-sections of green almonds, squeaky-crisp as an unripe pear. Deborah Racicot's desserts are just clever enough; if you're paying attention, you can tell that she is, too. To go with a round chocolate tart, like a brownie with a melted center, she lightly curries bananas, using slightly green ones so they're not too cloying. The nicest thing I can say about the long winter is that it allowed her citrus salad with tapioca pudding and orange-blossom granité to stay on the menu until May. Tableside patter can be strange. A server one night talked up the "day-trip scallops" (lucky them) and pushed carrots Wellington as a mid-meal "palate cleanser." There was no song and dance from the wine staff, led by Ashley Santoro, only to-the-point advice on a very appealing list. The design has a disjointed feel. Wooden chairs hang from pegs, in the aspirational Shaker Zen style, but the low zigzag partition along the bar could come from a Vegas coffee shop. Then there's the steep staircase to the restrooms with crazy diagonal stripes reflected in the mirrored ceiling. It looks as if the director of "The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari" had remade "The Lost Weekend." If you've been drinking, tie a rope around your waist and have a friend slowly lower you down. 