 And the award for the most improved restaurant of the year so far goes to ... Montmartre. Gabriel Stulman, owner; Tien Ho, chef. Prizes seemed unlikely after I ate there in April, when the restaurant was six weeks old. Wonderfully tender veal blanquette went to waste in a sauce that looked and tasted like salted milk. Thick breading on a skate wing vacuumed up any flavor that the fish, already underseasoned, might have offered. A mystifying upside-down tart inverted a slightly sweet pastry shell over a raw kale salad whose anchovy dressing made no impact to speak of. The outlook was not completely bleak. I liked the small wild snails around a pink raft of garlic sausage, and there was a fine brandade spiced with chile paste. The general trend, though, looked bad for Mr. Ho's desire to interpret "super old-school" French cuisine in Chelsea. That week, Mr. Stulman sent word to restaurant blogs that the spirit of the menu was about to change "to better showcase the diversity of ingredients and flavors that Tien is known for." Mr. Ho made his name as the chef in the crazy early days of bo ssam delirium at Momofuku Ssam Bar, and then, to more restrained applause, at Má Pêche. The second restaurant was itself meant to be a French-Vietnamese mash-up, which is what he now had in mind for Montmartre. Considering that his Asian roots were showing right from the start, though, and that snails with sausage had been on the opening menu at Má Pêche, the shift in emphasis sounded fairly incremental. But the effect was transformative, as if National Grid had finally turned on the gas. When I returned to Montmartre in May, Mr. Ho was tilting an impressive French boudin toward China by blending it with five-spice powder and surrounding it with a black vinegar reduction and a spicy-tingly oil of dried chiles and Sichuan peppercorns. Boudin's livery richness can start to taste flat over the long haul, but the Asian trick of playing blood against fire made each new bite as powerful as the first. As a sauce for grilled branzino fillets whose skin had been firmly seared, Mr. Ho had in mind some pickled lemons and a thick, dark vinaigrette of pine nuts and black garlic that was like pesto's moody and more daring sister. Where the menu once had a boxed list of daily specials, or plats du jour, it now highlighted elaborate platters for two, like a whole duck. Long slices of breast had an edge of golden skin sweetened with kumquat glaze, while the legs had been braised with vadouvan, the subtle and focused curry powder. The idea was to fold the meat and some cabbage braised with duck fat and smoked duck confit inside one of the buckwheat-scallion crepes, moo-shu style, but the crepes fell apart. At $78, the dish should have been flawless; eaten with a fork and a dash of regret, it was still extraordinarily good. The cleverest and most dramatic Eurasian marriage is the pot au pho, a far less expensive plate for two, at $44. Mr. Ho takes the rich brown beef bouillon; the tender potatoes, carrots and leeks; and the mighty braised and grilled short rib on the bone from France. From Vietnam come the star anise and sprigs of Thai basil and cilantro that season the broth, the thin slices of raw sirloin that slowly cook in it, and the sriracha-enhanced hoisin sauce that you stir into it. For a moment, Montmartre's rekindled fire seemed to help one recipe that hadn't changed, a rice pudding with jackfruit and bananas. On the first encounter it was bland and not very creamy, with hard grains of underdone rice. Another time, those flaws had vanished; on a third try, it was the rice that vanished, leaving something like whipped cream with fruit. Another dessert, a mille-feuille with milk-chocolate mousse between planks of puff pastry, has been a pleasure from the start. Once in a while, Montmartre still gets a case of the blahs. The dressing on a wax bean salad, allegedly a tahini-soy vinaigrette, made no impression, and curls of raw hamachi with diced apples didn't rise above routine. The plating can be slightly untidy and the flavors a bit reticent even now. But Montmartre's French fusion has more conviction than the straight-up French food of many other New York chefs. Mr. Stulman is the downtown restaurant scene's leading miniaturist, able to get full-scale scenes into cramped rooms. His last place was called Chez Sardine , but Montmartre is the one where you sometimes feel like a canned fish. Seats in the two dining rooms (a tiny one downstairs, a slightly less tiny one upstairs) are so close together that you can find yourself playing Twister with servers who are simply trying to clear your plate. Montmartre's wine list, divided between France and the United States, encourages a more restrained drinking style, in part because your dollar won't go as far here as it will elsewhere. As in his other places, Mr. Stulman has very high wine markups, about three times retail. Wines by the glass hover around $10, which sounds reasonable until you are poured four ounces of Bourgueil in a tumbler the size of a juice glass. It looks, and is, ungenerous. But I've certainly paid more than $13 for cocktails that are not nearly as tightly assembled as Montmartre's, devised by Mr. Stulman's director of bar operations, Brian Bartels. There's also an elegantly disassembled Campari and soda on a silver tray, inspired by the Café de Flore in Paris: hefty ice cubes, a bottle of Perrier and a highball glass of the cherry-red aperitif spritzed with grapefruit bitters, to mix as you like. As he has done before, Mr. Stulman reserves a large number of tables for walk-ins. Prime-time reservations are snatched up quickly, but it is, in fact, possible to drop by and be seated right away. And once again, he has hung the walls with photographs. Some, like the Vogue fashion shoots or a nattily dressed Joe Louis walking arm in arm with his wife, have a cool elegance. Some are rowdy, like the men in a saloon celebrating the end of Prohibition by guzzling straight from a keg. Many were shot in Paris, and others in New York. The images don't seem to belong together, but they talk to one another intercontinentally. This may have been the idea of Montmartre all along, but now the kitchen is in on the conversation, too. 