 Years from now, when PBS runs its six-part documentary about David Chang, Roy Choi and the other American chefs who over the last decade have cracked open Asian cooking traditions and hosed down the pieces with pork fat, I hope an episode will be devoted to the triple pork triple garlic mazemen at Ivan Ramen. The camera will pan majestically across "The Art of the Slurp," Nathan Fox's manga-style strip that hangs over the counter and starts with a fat boy in a Batman mask snapping his chopsticks apart, as a narrator intones: "In 2014, Ivan Orkin, a Long Island native who grew famous cooking ramen in Tokyo, opened his flagship restaurant on the Lower East Side." The plucking of a samisen fades out; punk guitar chords clang; the screen is filled with a close-up of a noodle bowl. "Developed in Japan around the turn of the 21st century, mazemen is a drier variation on ramen, more like pasta than soup. Mr. Orkin dressed fresh whole-wheat noodles with a slab of simmered pork belly, chopped bacon and enough pork-bone stock to moisten the noodles. Then came the garlic: raw, pickled and roasted." Cut to a heavyset, white-haired, unshaven, downtrodden man in pajamas, identified as a former restaurant critic for The New York Times. "Actually, there was a fourth pork and a fourth garlic in there," he says. "Garlic oil and pork fat. Maybe Orkin thought ‘quadruple pork' sounded too much like ‘quadruple bypass.' Those ingredients could have gotten into a shouting match, but they were harmonious. It was like a summation of all the lard-wallowing and umami-slinging that had rippled through American food since the first drop of grease ran down the chin of the first customer who tried a Momofuku pork bun. I could eat a bowl of that mazemen right now, if they would let me have anything besides kale pellets." Get that old guy off the screen. He's bringing me down, though he's right about the triple pork triple garlic mazemen. It's an undeniably intense dish that shows how energetically and skillfully Mr. Orkin colors outside the lines of Japanese cuisine. Since Ivan Ramen opened in May, there is usually a line for the single restroom but rarely one to get in the door. Some of the pent-up steam in the ramen community may have escaped late last year, when Mr. Orkin opened Slurp Shop, in Gotham West Market. A quick-service counter with a noodle-dominated menu, Slurp Shop is a fine introduction to Mr. Orkin's ramen philosophy (essentially, make everything -- noodles, broth, droplets of fat on the surface of the soup -- better), but not to his full breadth as a chef. For that, you need to go to Ivan Ramen, where he invests in creativity well outside the scope of standard ramenyas. Mr. Orkin supplements the noodles with dishes that cover many bases, though not the sweet one just yet. Desserts are promised down the line. As suggested by a dining-room collage made of hundreds of pictures of Asian and Western pop icons and foodstuffs, Mr. Orkin's cultural allusions are quick and funny, and come from several directions at once. He makes a whacked-out vegetarian chili dog with fried tofu in place of the frank, a rich and intense stew of mushrooms and miso as the chili, and a squiggly line of American yellow mustard. (There's no substitute for yellow mustard.) Called a Tofu Coney Island, it's a joke that tastes great. That was true for the JFC, too: deep-fried chicken hearts and livers with a honey-mustard sauce that tasted similar enough to the traditional McNugget garnish to make me laugh, and different enough (sharper, stronger and enriched with ponzu) to make me want more. The Japanese borrowed ramen from China, and Mr. Orkin keeps up the custom. There is steamed Chinese broccoli with soy-pickled garlic, as well as a salad of crunchy daikon threads topped with spicy, funky XO sauce. On tables that could become laden with pork very quickly, each was a cool, welcome oasis. The pork tended to disappear as quickly as it arrived. True, the scrapple waffle, a takeoff on Japanese okonomiyaki, hadn't moved beyond the gimmick stage; it was all crisp, bland surface without the peculiar bits of fat and face that excite scrapple fans and terrify everybody else. But the improbably fluffy tofu-pork meatballs catapulted themselves into my mouth at the slightest encouragement, and little do-it-yourself handrolls of nori spread with sushi rice and pulled roast pork, as slick and rich as carnitas, were gone almost before I noticed the bright, sweet-sour relief they got from roasted tomatoes. As our server promised, roasted tomato performed the same favor for a cheese mazemen, a kind of Japanese alfredo. Servers at Ivan Ramen are always pushing add-on garnishes for the noodles for an extra $2 or $3. "All our ramens are improved by an egg," we were told one night. If Mr. Orkin thinks his ramen is better with an egg, he should put an egg on it, and charge accordingly. Value is a sticky issue with ramen. Because it is served in a minute and eaten almost as quickly, it seems to call for fast-food prices. It takes more than a minute to prepare, though, particularly at Ivan Ramen, where the noodles are made in the kitchen from rye or whole-wheat flour. Springy and hearty, they are exceptional. The broths are painstakingly simmered until their flavors are deep and focused, particularly in the vegetarian ramen's soy-mushroom stock and the shio ramen's base of dashi stirred into a golden chicken soup that a grandmother might want to steal credit for. The most expensive ramen is $15, or $17 with the suggested egg. The mazemens, a form Mr. Orkin has mastered more fully than anyone in the city, justify the price. (The red-hot cold mazemen, dressed with salty, spicy sesame and accessorized with two prawns, should settle any doubts.) The soup ramens do not, at least not yet. Several times, the broth arrived well below the scalding heat that gives ramen its temporal dimension, as you race to eat the noodles before they go from slightly undercooked to al dente to overdone. The soups at Ivan Ramen barely changed, so there was no rush, no need to illustrate the art of the slurp. Maybe mine sat too long in the kitchen. The ramens shouldn't stop just short of the finish line when so many other items on the menu sail right over it. 