 Earlier this year Rôtisserie Georgette put a new chef in charge of its spit-roasted chickens and fish, its fries flecked with tarragon and its baby potatoes heavy with meat drippings, and I couldn't tell the difference. This is meant as praise, and not the damning-with-faint kind. The cult of the new in restaurants has brought us many wonders, but it has also left us with the curse of compulsory creativity. It's no longer enough for chefs to cook hot food that makes us happy; they are supposed to dumbfound us with flavors the human tongue has never tasted. This is why writers like me devote energy to, for example, puzzling postmodern taquerias while taking for granted the simple excellence of traditional ones. The change in restaurant culture is something like the shift that overtook popular music after the Beatles. Singing old Cole Porter tunes was out; suddenly every kid with a guitar and an amplifier was supposed to have the songwriting chops of Lennon and McCartney combined. Rôtisserie Georgette isn't writing any new music. The kitchen, now under Chad Brauze, plays standards from the French songbook and plays them well, with what a colleague who has eaten high and low around the city calls "a refreshing lack of creativity." If this restaurant had a clock, its hands would be stopped at five minutes before nouvelle cuisine, when meat was carved to cover the plate and sauce came on the side and nobody turned down potatoes, when people eating a roast with a good but not-too-expensive Bordeaux could hardly imagine a better night out. You can feel this way at Rôtisserie Georgette, although the joys of time travel end with the Bordeaux. Jean-Luc Le Dû 's list has an affordable 2002 Haut-Médoc from Château Lanessan for $62, but the other red Bordeaux have been adjusted for inflation and then some. Rôtisserie Georgette has a real rotisserie and a real Georgette, both easy to spot. There are two rotisseries, in fact, standing back to back in the open kitchen. The one facing the dining room is a tall steel model with brass trim, loaded up with pudgy chickens, small flocks of stuffed quail, dorade locked in a cage with lemon wheels and thyme branches. There is one Georgette. Her last name is Farkas. A coiled spring of proprietary energy, Ms. Farkas started cooking in restaurants at 15, attended hotel school in Switzerland and interned with Alain Ducasse in Monte Carlo. She was on her way to running a restaurant of her own when Daniel Boulud offered her a job. After she said yes, she learned that she would be handling marketing and public relations. That little gig lasted 17 years, which may be one reason that Rôtisserie Georgette seemed to have traveled from another decade when it landed on East 60th Street last November. The loft-height walls are hung with a cluster of antique mirrors, an Aubusson tapestry and bronze Louis XV-style sconces. Carpeting helps muffle the noise, which tends to wane around 9 p.m. This is an early-to-bed crowd, and with an 8:15 reservation one night I was the last to leave. At one end of the room is a porter's chair, its egg-shaped back upholstered in leather. Now I know where to seat the dowager countess when she comes to visit. In some ways Rôtisserie Georgette is a delayed-gratification version of the restaurants opened in the '70s and '80s by young Americans who fell for European ways of dining. What set Ms. Farkas's heartstrings humming were the rotisseries of France. Rôtisserie Georgette will sell you half a chicken for $24 or a whole one, which feeds two people for $36 each. The economy model, raised on an Amish farm in Indiana, is rubbed with herbes de Provence and cracked coriander seeds. Roasted chickens don't always pick up the flavor of the herbs they're stuffed with. These birds do. The legs are tender without disintegrating into strands, as rotisserie dark meat can do. The white meat is close to ideal, with just a whisker of dryness at the narrow tips. The pricier chicken is called the poule de luxe, French slang for a woman with high upkeep costs. It is brought up in Pennsylvania under Mennonite supervision, hides a terrific mushroom stuffing under its skin, and features a slab of seared foie gras that is both unsatisfying and beside the point. Too bad you can't get the stuffing without paying for the liver, but I'm sure if I were French I'd understand that this is always the way with a poule de luxe. There is nothing fancy about the quail, just juicy meat wrapped around a pale-pink poultry forcemeat seasoned with paprika and piquillo peppers. The dorade, roasted whole and then filleted, breaks into beautiful white lemon-scented chunks. A special one night was rotisserie duck à l'orange, carved and arranged on a silver platter. Mr. Brauze had defied the modern rule of duck cookery, taking the breast all the way to medium. He knew what he was doing, because medium-rare meat wouldn't have taken as well to the bittersweet orange-peel sauce. Only once was I served meat that didn't come off the spit at the ideal moment: a crumbly, dried-out lamb shoulder with a merguez stuffing that tasted as if it had been left out in the rain. With any main course, the fat-basted rotisserie potatoes are almost required, although the frites, fried to a mahogany crisp, will also do. But a strict meat-and-potatoes diet can be supplemented by creamed spinach with garam masala, tiny and fiery-hot brussels sprouts and purple cabbage stewed with cider and bacon. I'd be surprised if the vegetables at Ms. Farkas's long-ago French rotisseries were worth noticing, but these are. Ms. Farkas put her first initial on the better of two salads, the salade G, with a time-tested mix of endive, pears, blue cheese, bacon and candied walnuts. There is also a salade Francine. If I were Francine, I'd be on the phone with my agent trying to get my name taken off it. Nicole Kaplan, the pastry chef who made her name at Eleven Madison Park and Del Posto , handles the desserts, mostly stock characters from the bistro repertory. The tarte Tatin has been circling the target: the caramel was too scorched one time, not scorched enough the next. But the chocolate soufflé hit the bull's-eye, and so did the dark chocolate pot de crème in a coffee mug. Neither was the least bit surprising. That's a compliment, too. 