 WHEN I ASKED a friend to meet me for dinner at a food court near the Javits Convention Center, he acted as if I had suggested we fill a fanny pack with Hot Pockets and eat them on the back of a bus. After that, I sharpened my sales pitch. I told people that we would be inhaling ramen that is famous in Tokyo, and for good reason. I said that we would be drinking beers that were more unusual and delicious than what they were used to, and that for ballast we'd put down a layer of lamb sausage. I noted that we might sit at a tapas bar that in flavor and spirit comes as close to the Spanish ideal as any place in New York. That worked. Once I had convinced them, my guests tended to like everything about this food court, called Gotham West Market , except getting there. It occupies a block of 11th Avenue in the West 40s that lately feels less like Hell's Kitchen than Hell's Freezer. But the inconvenient address is the reason this new eating adventure exists. It was built to lure renters to Gotham West , the 1,238-unit apartment complex above and behind it. As any New York real estate agent can tell you, even buyers who think of themselves as pioneers don't want to mill corn and slaughter hogs like Pa Ingalls. Gotham West's developer tried to answer that objection by bringing forth a troop of places to eat in a spot that had almost none. It is not the only effort to upgrade the food court , long the province of soft pizzas, sludgy stir-fries and swollen cinnamon rolls. A few blocks south, the sprawling Hudson Yards development will have a food hall (the preferred term these days), as will Brookfield Place in Battery Park City. This spring, Crown Heights in Brooklyn will get Berg'n , a beer hall with food from stalwarts of the Brooklyn Flea and Smorgasburg. Anthony Bourdain, meanwhile, has driven his fans into a near frenzy with his plan to bring street food from around the world to Manhattan. With an unusual degree of imagination, Gotham West smartly stakes out a middle ground between the star power that packs Eataly and the hope of discovery that drives small-business proving grounds like Smorgasburg and the Golden Shopping Mall in Flushing, Queens. Somewhere between famous and brand new, at least to New Yorkers, is Ivan Orkin , the American chef who taught himself to make ramen in Tokyo. Manhattan is becoming enmeshed in ramen, but his noodles at Ivan Ramen Slurp Shop stand out from the tangle. Of the traditional ramens, my favorites are the shio, a supercharged chicken soup of phenomenal depth and clarity, and the vegetarian shoyu, darker and heartier, tasting of soy sauce and roasted mushrooms. Both broths were scalding hot, with a fatty richness that made my lips slippery. After the first few mouthfuls of rye noodles, I put down my chopsticks and stared into the white ceramic bowl, trying to see where all that flavor was coming from. If I ever showed up at Slurp Shop in a linen suit, I might forgo slurping and order roasted-garlic mazemen, a more recent style that dresses the noodles in a thick sauce, something like Italian pasta. Or I might eat a rice bowl. The one with smoked whitefish tastes like a Japanese translation of a morning at Russ & Daughters. But I was even more taken by the one topped with tender, soy-rich pork and a smear of salty, sour plum paste. The chef Seamus Mullen is here, too. His tapas bar, El Colmado, expands on the Spanish menu he developed at Tertulia but is set up so it's easier to drop in and graze and drink wines from Catalonia or Bierzo and pretend that 11th Avenue is in Spain. El Colmado feeds the illusion. The cooks are dressed in sky-blue grocers' jackets and dark gray caps, and the counter is propped with jars of squid and cans of pimentón next to oysters on ice. They are excellent, as is the Serrano ham, which falls from a vintage Berkel slicer in shaggy pink leaves that are meltingly pliable. With the exception of fried artichokes smothered below overdressed arugula, the cooking has a light hand that befits the elemental flavors of Spanish cuisine. Frying is a strength, in croquettes filled with smoked eel, or fried whitebait, their pinpoint black eyes staring up from a swirl of lemon-yellow aioli. Lamb meatballs are a model of the form. So are the gambas al ajillo, red shrimp in a quarter-inch of garlic- and shrimp-infused olive oil that I would drink from a shot glass. The market showed some discernment in electing Caroline Fidanza's Little Chef as a delegate from Brooklyn. Ms. Fidanza helped create the borough's current restaurant aesthetic as the first chef of Diner in Williamsburg, before she downshifted to a smaller shop, Saltie . Little Chef's menu expands a bit on Saltie's, adding soups and spirited juice blends. (I'm a fan of the carrot and fresh turmeric cocktail.) The core mission is the same, though: lavishing care on breakfast and lunch with a modest roster of eggs and sandwiches. Simplicity is luxury in the Ship's Biscuit, a raft of creamy scrambled eggs and ricotta on very fresh focaccia studded with crunchy sea salt. Across the hall, staring down the largely vegetarian pleasures of Little Chef with a meaty gleam in its eye, is the Cannibal. An outpost of the cultish East 29th Street original steered by the chef Francis Derby, this baby Cannibal makes do without a full-fledged kitchen. Sometimes it shows; the brussels sprouts I had tasted like Thanksgiving leftovers. There is a baked Japanese sweet potato that was a wonderful thing to find at the end of a cold walk, but in general charcuterie is the strong suit here, like spicy lamb sausages in natural casings or a surprisingly gentle sausage of juicy rock shrimp with fennel pollen. Even better is the beer fridge, shelved with obscurities that the servers expertly match with your tastes. Some spots are geared for the day-to-day needs of locals. Genuine Roadside is an all-day diner annex designed and run by AvroKO , the design firm that did the rest of the market. I got more of a kick out of the hipster-truck-stop décor, with its shelf of vintage beer cans that includes deep verticals of Schlitz, than I did from an uninspiring pulled pork sandwich or the hard-shell ceviche taco spackled together with guacamole. But if I lived upstairs, I would make an occasional lunch of the fried chicken sandwich. And I would be devoted to the high-end heroes built by the Court Street Grocers Sandwich Shop. Dessert is a weak spot, especially at night. Little Chef, which bakes homey sweets during the day, closes at 6 p.m. Another early closer is the Blue Bottle Coffee kiosk. The baked goods devised by one of its owners, Caitlin Freeman, like crisp almond biscotti with more than a hint of saffron and the excellent, sweet-and-savory shortbreads, taste best between sips of state-of-the-art coffee and espresso. After dark, the best choices are the old-school flan from El Colmado or the s'mores icebox cake from the Cannibal, worth ordering just so you can see the toasted marshmallow slab. Nearly every vendor has counter seating, but servers will run food out to the communal tables and benches in the center of the hall, which is handy if you want ramen and your friends want tapas. The offer is always made with a smile; while the businesses are separately run, they share a common spirit of friendliness. It's as if everybody knows you didn't really want to come to 11th Avenue. 