 SAN FRANCISCO -- One of the most compelling meals I've had on the job was served to me early this spring by a restaurant here called Saison . About a year ago, I had one of the most maddening meals in my career, also at Saison. Both times, I found myself asking a question that comes up increasingly often at the high end of American dining: How much are we willing to pay for an extraordinary dinner? We are not talking solely about money here, although the tab for a tasting menu at Saison, which starts at $298 before drinks, tax or tip, is not pocket change. There is the price of being late: the meal will start without you, and, as the Web site puts it, "any missed courses cannot be made up." The price of changing your plans: Saison charges the full $298 if you cancel with less than three days' notice. The price of dietary restrictions: Saison accommodates few of them. The price in time and control: dinner lasts more than three hours, and menus are not posted in advance. The issue is whether Saison, which has won two Michelin stars along with its share of mixed reviews , delivers enough pleasure to justify the pain. After my latest meal, in the restaurant's new and costly concrete-chic space south of Market Street, near the ball field where the Giants play, my answer has gone from a reluctant no to a definite yes. Saison brings together some of the best and the worst things about tasting menus, but now, I believe, the good has the upper hand. Facing down more than 15 courses, I wasn't bored once, and several times I was on the edge of my seat. Part of the fun was not knowing where the next thrill would come from. Seeing a plate of grilled asparagus with cured sea urchin and tuna did not prepare me for the intensity of what I was about to eat. The soft, salty cured tuna was like prosciutto from the ocean. The sea urchin tasted like bottarga but with an added suggestion of decadence. The asparagus tasted the way it does in my imagination during the long wait from the end of one year's season to the start of the next. It was like a heightened version of itself, hyper-asparagus. Joshua Skenes , the executive chef and an owner, has other hyper-foods in his kitchen. There was the trout roe, served on a potato crisp with a dab of vichyssoise. Some trout roe tastes like capsules of fish-flavored salt, but this roe, cured in a house-made fish sauce, was deeply nuanced. Crisp green peas on top of Parmesan custard were accentuated versions of themselves, a little fresher, a little brighter. They had been grilled for a moment or two, and the combination of their smoky sweetness with the magically smooth, just-set custard made me want to tell the world to slow down. During my earlier meal, I would have given anything to speed things up. At the time, Saison was operating out of an improvised shed in the city's Mission District. The wood-burning hearth was out in a courtyard. So were the restrooms, and cooks and customers kept opening and closing the door all night. A few dishes had a rough, unfinished quality, and some felt repetitive, but others were like nothing I'd seen before. It was like having dinner in a drafty but luxurious cave owned by an extremely sophisticated hunter-gatherer -- too much for some people, but I got a kick out of it. I was less thrilled by the attitude of the servers. They would strut around the room, every few minutes bearing a plate to my table as if it had come straight from God's workshop, and God couldn't quite remember who I was. I don't believe anybody looked at me long enough to have picked me out of a police lineup; I know nobody asked if I was having a good time, because there were two long stretches when I wanted the whole thing to stop. One of them began around the second time the restaurant played Phil Collins. At Saison, if you don't share the chef's taste for '80s pop, you are out of luck. And that, combined with the length and cost of the meal, the occasional self-indulgence of the menu and the obliviousness of the servers, made the restaurant feel arrogant in a way that few places these days do. I've thought about that meal often over the last year, usually while I was at the mercy of a chef who seemed to be grasping at the same effects Saison had delivered. Mr. Skenes fashions dishes that are at once primitive and refined, but in other hands the same approach can be drab and weird, and soon I was looking forward to tasting the real thing again. It may be the new address or a year's added experience, but the staff this time was kinder and less cocky. For customers who aren't ready or able to pay full freight, Saison now offers an à la carte menu in a lounge by the door, a suggestion that Mr. Skenes is trying to make some accommodation for his restaurant's extraordinary demands. I encountered only one remnant of the old condescension. I typed a few notes, starting with the first wine of the night, a Champagne that my phone's autocorrect feature did not recognize. Later, a server who had evidently been reading over my shoulder said: "I couldn't help noticing that you wrote ‘Kruger.' It's actually ‘Krug.' " The rest of the night was marked by solicitousness and was punctuated by one dish after another in which the flavors were as deep and long as any I've ever tasted. It was carried along by wines chosen by Mark Bright, the sommelier and Mr. Skenes's partner in the restaurant, and it ended with a flurry of classically inclined desserts from the pastry chef, Shawn Gawle, who hand-delivered a heart-stopping white-sesame soufflé and gently parted the surface to drop in a spoonful of black-sesame ice cream. Mr. Skenes is one of several chefs who are venturing beyond the rustic French and Italian roots set down by Alice Waters and other pioneers to forge a modern identity for California cuisine. The group includes David Kinch , at Manresa in Los Gatos; Christopher Kostow , of the Restaurant at Meadowood in Napa; and Daniel Patterson , of Coi in San Francisco, among others. They share a naturalistic visual aesthetic, a profound attentiveness to seasonality, a commitment to exploring the region's resources and an undogmatic embrace of both new and old kitchen tricks. At Saison, the most important kitchen tool is the oldest of all: fire. Mr. Skenes calls it "the heart of the restaurant." Nearly every dish at Saison contains something that was smoked, grilled or roasted by a wood fire. "We wanted to find a more honest connection with cooking," he said. "That's where the fire came about: how little salt, how much seasoning can we pull back, when you really begin to taste the inherent flavor of an ingredient?" Some chefs are like matchmakers to their ingredients, always trying to set them up on dates. Mr. Skenes approaches his ingredients like a psychoanalyst: he makes them look inward, encouraging them to unlock their hidden potential before meeting anybody new. Saison served me black cod in a yogurt and Rangpur lime broth and topped it with plantain chips given an orange dusting of Indonesian curry powder. The deployment of Asian flavors was sensational, but what was most remarkable about the dish was the black cod itself, not just sweet and rich but also a little tangy, with an almost creamy consistency that came from a slow poaching in seawater. Mr. Skenes has been buying most of his raw fish from Japan because he believes it is caught and handled more carefully there. A slice of imported blue-wing sea robin, cured in kelp for several days and then instantaneously seared with a hot ember along one edge, might be the most memorable thing I ate at Saison. Recently, though, Mr. Skenes began to work with a Bay Area fishing captain who reels in all kinds of species, monkey eels and idiot fish, and delivers them live to the restaurant. "We're going to try to wean ourselves off Japan, so we're more representative of the Bay Area," he said. Subsidizing a boat to custom-catch fish for Saison is an expensive proposition. There is also the cost of the seaweed forager and the poultry ranchers who raise pigeons to Saison's exact specifications. Mr. Skenes said that his ingredient costs are barely covered by the menu price, and that a cancellation can put the restaurant in the red. Thus, the fees for changing plans within 72 hours. Short of calling in a team of accountants, I don't know how to verify this. I do know that, for all of the extraordinary demands it makes on diners, Saison delivers a meal that is at least as extraordinary. Saison, 178 Townsend Street, San Francisco; (415) 828-7990; saisonsf.com . 