 Apparently there are people who believe that the Internet has made restaurant critics irrelevant. I'd like to direct their attention to this text from the ABC Cocina Web site : "abc cocina & michelin star chef jean-georges vongerichten welcome you to our modern global exchange celebrating local craft and international culture, a fusion of tradition and innovation uniting yesterday and tomorrow." Got that? There's more: "experience the vision of abc home curation, a romantic and mystical atmosphere and succumb to a dynamic love affair with an eclectic and enchanting cuisine." If that gives you a vivid picture of what is in store for you at this three-month-old establishment, stop reading and use the free time that now stretches out before you to do something nice for a stranger. If, on the other hand, you found a few passages somewhat hazy, I'll be happy to do my job. This "modern global exchange" is what we critics like to call a "restaurant." By and large it is a very good one, with a few odd touches. It is overseen by Mr. Vongerichten, who collaborates on the food with Dan Kluger, the executive chef here and next door at ABC Kitchen . "International culture" must refer to the menu, which rummages through the cupboards of Spanish-speaking countries in Europe (that would be Spain), Mexico, Central America and South America (although you don't need to go to Argentina these days to find chimichurri). This attempt to reassemble the Spanish Empire does not shed new light on any of these cuisines. Intellectually and culturally, it borders on incoherence. But in the kitchen it has inspired a large number of smart, exciting dishes along with a small handful of slightly peculiar ones. You can get along just fine without intellectual coherence when the flavors are as clear and harmonious as they are in a ceviche of white shrimp bathed in a vivid citrus sauce. Just as the throb of habaneros begins to build up, a bite of soft banana or a crisp Marcona almond breaks the tension. And sure, maybe the first person to put cucumber, dill and yogurt together with cured salmon wasn't all that fluent in Spanish. Fine. ABC Cocina's version is still great, with dried chiles powdering the edges of the sweet and smoky fish, and an unexpectedly bright acidity in the cucumber, which is zippy where you expect it to be soothing. There's an alchemy at work at ABC Cocina, the kind that can turn the last thing you'd want to order into the first thing you'll ask for next time around. For me, it was the vegetables with brown rice, which I expected would taste like a tea made by steeping the yellowed pages of the "Moosewood Cookbook" in warm kombucha and straining it through Pigpen's bandanna. It was, in fact, one of the freshest, cleanest vegetable dishes I've tasted all summer. The rice was fluffy, not gluey, and each vegetable -- baby fennel, tender carrots, skinny asparagus -- spoke out clearly. The rice was dressed with a salsa verde that came across as more of an herb vinaigrette with a citrus rasp and a little spice. The vegetables were so tender and seasonal, you could call this a farm-to-table dish, but it's almost too light on its feet for that. The "michelin star chef" (Mr. Vongerichten has done all right by this newspaper, too) and his protégé are both minimalists, but in different ways. Mr. Kluger has a gift for making his ingredients, especially the vegetables, taste a little purer than almost anyone else's. With the best of Mr. Vongerichten's dishes, on the other hand, it's not the main ingredient you remember as much what he has done to it: a three-ingredient sauce or marinade whose ingredients are suspended in a tense standoff. Once in a great while, the two approaches -- one interventionist, the other more conservative -- are at war. I loved the deep, meaty flavors of roasted maitake mushroom chunks pieced together around a core of warm goat cheese, but couldn't understand what either ingredient was supposed to get out of a sharply acidic Fresno pepper vinaigrette. And I'd skip the sweet barbecue sauce with black sea bass; the interplay of thyme and tamarind in the marinade was enough to carry the fish. More often, the team of Vongerichten and Kluger puts you in the excellent dilemma of not knowing which you like better, the food or its sauce. Should more restaurants have fried squid this sweet and fresh, or should more of them look beyond lemon wedges and marinara to find something with the rounded sweet-and-sour depth of ABC Cocina's ancho glaze? I hope this kind of dish is what "fusion of tradition and innovation uniting yesterday and tomorrow" means, and not the drippy, messy burger going around in taco drag. The warm, slightly shiny tortillas have a depth of masa flavor that is shown off better by roasted mushrooms with a peanut-based mole. Or by the one big piece of tempura-fried fish with spicy mayonnaise and citrus-dressed cabbage. Or by the BLT taco, which translates each element of a classic Mexican pork-based taco into idiomatic American English, with roasted pork belly and a red-and-yellow jumble of tiny, juicy heirloom tomatoes. I know what you're thinking: enough with the eclectic, enchanting cuisine already -- let's hear about the romantic, mystical atmosphere! I am sorry to disappoint you, but ABC Cocina didn't seem very romantic to me, or especially mystical, either. It looked to me like a fairly simple cafe, with metal chairs and bare tables, located inside a lighting showroom. That is essentially what it is. The restaurant, like ABC Kitchen, is inside ABC Carpet & Home, and nearly every object is for sale: lighting fixtures, chairs, plates, pyrite rocks, fragments of wasps' nests and water bottles that come with a stick of charcoal ("the vision of abc home curation"). A surprising number of those lighting fixtures have tiny bulbs embedded in long tentacles that dangle over the dining room like jellyfish. I could see how it might be romantic and mystical if you are sexually attracted to gelatinous sea creatures. As for "dynamic love affair," you are going to have to ask Google. I have absolutely no idea. 