 Something happened to me recently at the Cleveland, a small restaurant downtown, that struck me as both unprecedented and inevitable. After a friend and I had finished a small opening snack, the server brought our appetizers and main courses. At the same time. It's impossible to imagine any kitchen, even the most tragically inept one, making the same mistake five years ago. This was a pure symptom of the current small-plates epidemic. The old two-course menu has broken down so badly that some restaurants feel no obligation to send dishes out in any particular sequence, even if diners clearly order appetizers and mains, as we did. Until we work out some protocols for small-plate dining, the way cultures like Spain's have done, we're going to be eating on a lawless, fast-changing frontier. Sometimes innovative restaurants like Recette or Pearl & Ash come swirling out of the chaos. At other times it coughs up half-formed and unconvincing places like Telepan Local. It's easy to imagine what Bill Telepan was thinking. Since 2005 he has done all his sensible, seasonal, ingredients-first cooking in one restaurant, Telepan , on West 69th Street. In a perfect city, Telepan's success would have lured more places of its caliber to the Upper West Side. Instead, the center of gravity of Manhattan's dining scene has migrated steadily downtown, while a looser style has swept in to make even relatively youthful places like Telepan look a bit antediluvian. A small-plates menu in TriBeCa must have seemed like a way for Mr. Telepan to reach diners who couldn't find Columbus Avenue without the aid of an Uber driver. In practice, Telepan Local, which Mr. Telepan opened on Greenwich Street in early January with Joel Javier as chef de cuisine, offers most of the drawbacks of small-plates eating and almost none of the advantages. As at so many of these restaurants, the dishes at Telepan come out whenever, they land wherever, and you have no idea if you're going to get too much food or too little. The meal unfolds, or unravels, on tables built in Nicaragua from dark and white slats of wood approximately cobbled together. They are the size of the ones in cocktail lounges where, in another era, people had manhattans and mixed nuts while waiting to be moved to the dining room. Now, this is dinner: glasses for water, wine and cocktails; blue carafes for carbonated water and clear ones for filtered tap; bottles of wine; plates for eating and plates for serving; and a votive candle, all vying for two or three square feet of real estate. Something's got to give, and it is the silverware, which falls to the floor with surprising frequency. Or maybe it jumps, through some instinct for self-preservation. "We're a farm-to-table American tapas restaurant," my server said one night. "All the food is small plates that you can share." In fact, many plates struck me as too small, even for one. The carrots, tiny and multicolored and al dente, tossed with oregano and bits of feta, come in a dish slightly bigger than a coffee lid. They cost $8, which in many restaurants would get you a side dish two or three times larger. A special of bay scallops with black-trumpet-mushroom purée was delicious, but there were six of them, and three of us. The price was $16. A $12 plate of eggs scrambled with smoked trout and fried bread worked out to about two forkfuls for each of us. These dishes were all sensitively made from great ingredients, but they were all a bit well-mannered for this style of dining. The best small plates cause a clamor. Sharing them provokes tension: Who's getting the last bite? That question came up with the wonderful little grilled cheese panini topped with a Spanish tomato-garlic-olive oil spread. And I could imagine arguing over the sea scallops and diced fried potatoes bathed in warm olive oil and spicy Aleppo pepper. But far more often, after a bite of, say, soft cauliflower in Cheddar sauce, or a mini-pizza with fried calamari over tomato sauce, or corned tongue with charred cabbage (really good) and Russian dressing (not quite as good), I would nod happily, and move on to the next thing. A single taste of some plates was too much. With its shrimp poppers -- peculiarly bland fried shrimp stuffed with peculiarly bland crab and fish mousse -- Telepan Local seemed to be trying to imitate Red Lobster and not quite succeeding. Fried watercress with cashews and chile sauce was an obvious homage to a Thai dish, yet it lacked the rippling energy of lime juice and fish sauce that any number of restaurants in Queens would have given it. Telepan Local's pigs in blankets, however, perfectly mimicked everybody else's pigs in blankets. Some of the best small-plates restaurants are glorified bars; picture tapas joints in Barcelona or izakayas in Tokyo or wine bars in Paris. Telepan Local looks at first as if it might fit the bill, with its long line of white barstools in an aggressively mirrored corridor up front. And the wine list is intriguing and affordable. But I had a hard time finding anybody who knew the bottles; one night my server couldn't tell me about any of the three Greek whites except the one poured by the glass. The cocktail list comes on strong, too. Most of the spirits are distilled locally; bitters are made on site. And I was surprised by the low-key sophistication of the Mai O Mai, a pineapple juice and rum concoction. The rest were too sweet, except for a gin and tonic that was too flat and a martini variant, the Jabberwocky, that was too warm. I had one of the worst desserts of the year at Telepan Local, a galette of underripe, undercooked pears on a gummy, doughy crust. I also had one of the best. Larissa Raphael, who pulls double duty as pastry chef here and at Telepan, has come up with a champion recipe for coconut cake that is rich like poundcake but lighter -- poundcake that could fly. Maybe it can fly right out of this small-plates version of Telepan Local and into one that makes sense, not an American tapas restaurant but simply an American neighborhood restaurant. Some of the understated cooking that gets lost when it's shared by the whole table might, in more generous portions, make lovely appetizers or main courses for one. 