 In some corners of the food media, the opening of Andrew Carmellini's new restaurant, Lafayette, was written about the way successful nuclear tests are covered on North Korean television. Some of this was because of Mr. Carmellini's record as a chef and restaurateur. His first two places, Locanda Verde and the Dutch , are so well loved that he would probably draw a crowd if he sold nothing but Lorna Doones and ginger ale. But Lafayette serves French food, now getting a second wind in New York after years of running on steak-frites-scented fumes. Apart, perhaps, from Daniel Boulud, no chef in town is better equipped to make that cuisine relevant and exciting again than Mr. Carmellini. A walking Larousse Gastronomique, he spent six years at Café Boulud working within the traditions of France as gracefully as he danced around them. Given a NoHo corner lot with miles of windows, the restaurant Mr. Carmellini came up with is like a junior Eataly for Francophiles. There is a pastry shop and bakery, a cocktail bar and an all-French wine list. Damon Wise, an ace technician from Craft and the Monkey Bar hired by Mr. Carmellini as chef de cuisine, wears a toque as he oversees an open kitchen where chickens on spits slowly give up their melting fat. All of this is packed inside the brass-and-mirrors skin of a brasserie that stays open from morning to midnight or thereabouts. As for the food, there are salads and charcuterie and oysters and shoestring fries. Almost all of it is worthy, but very little seduces you. Lafayette wants you to fall in love with it, but it tries too hard in some ways and not hard enough in others. It's a restaurant that is a little too easy to place in the friend zone. The nonromance starts at the door. One night when a private party had taken over the basement, Lafayette let large, unfunny security men with earpieces stop diners on the sidewalk for questioning. One prospective guest with a reservation said he was on his way inside to meet somebody. "For what?" came the reply. When Lafayette's staff members were handling first impressions themselves, the greeting was not always warmer. One night I was briskly packed off to the bar and ordered to come back and tell the hosts when the rest of my party had arrived, even though my other guests were sure to check in before searching for me. Nobody seems to have helped the servers pronounce simple French words on the menu. Specials weren't mentioned until I asked, and a menu change (trout in place of dorade) wasn't disclosed until I ordered it. A basket of country bread was placed directly in front of the only woman at the table, as if she were supposed to eat the whole thing herself. This wouldn't be such a bad fate; baked by James Belisle, the bread is outstanding, with a dense, mildly tangy rye and whole wheat crumb beneath a thick band of crust that shatters with a noise like a motorcycle boot stepping on a bag of potato chips. But the service at a restaurant as busy as Lafayette needs a brisk professionalism leavened with charm, or else you start to feel as if you are eating in the largest and most elegant Pain Quotidien in the five boroughs. The details matter. Luckily Mr. Wise and Jennifer Yee, the pastry chef, are as detail-oriented as they come. Ms. Yee is a master of classic tarts (both a cherry-almond frangipane tart and figs baked on a wheel of puff pastry were high points not just of the meal but of the month); modern French desserts (her charred mango with toasted coconut and lime parfait is a sunny and sophisticated tropical holiday); and, for good measure, all-American classics (she makes a great whole-wheat carrot muffin, which should be an oxymoron. The muffins are sold at the bakery counter alongside my favorite almond croissant in the city and other viennoiseries baked by Mr. Belisle). My meals leading up to dessert were often very good, even if they didn't always reach the same highs. The red-wine sauce in tripe bourguignon is a terrific achievement: fruity but not sharp or winy, it has a bittersweet richness like good dark chocolate. The pastas, too, were reliably impressive, like the little postage stamps of ravioli filled with goat cheese and squirted with a pesto that had a just-picked freshness, or the fleur de soleil, tender and silky little flowers tossed with snap peas, pancetta and mint. The eggs Lafayette, hard cooked with smoked sable heaped into the yolk hollows and trout roe gleaming on top, tasted like three or four great brunch dishes in one small, luxurious package. Duck breast au poivre under pinwheels of candied kumquat had a more concentrated and meatier flavor than some steaks, although the watery disks of braised radish remained on my plate. Sometimes a modern tidiness goes too far, though. The seasoning on a neat patty of beef tartare was too polite and the frisée salad was too prim, with dainty bits of house-made bacon and an egg cooked too long to melt into the vinaigrette. A bouillabaisse that could have been the best in town was undercut by its serving dish, photogenic but impractical. The lobster tail, langoustine, mussels and monkfish were all handsomely cooked, and the shellfish broth was wonderfully aromatic with saffron and pastis. But spreading it all out in a shallow copper braising pan meant that both seafood and sauce were tepid within minutes. It's now off the menu. I hope it's simply gone to Williams-Sonoma to buy itself a deep porcelain bowl, because a spectacular bouillabaisse could help Lafayette get out of the friend zone. The by-the-book pork pâté won't do it. Neither will the rotisserie chicken. Tender and flavorful as it is, it still puts you in mind of Fairway , not Chez l'Ami Louis . Profoundly sweet and fresh scallops won't do it, either, not if they are languishing in a nondescript pea purée surrounded by a meek spoonful of morel jus. Another chef-engineered burger won't do it, even if this one, served at lunch, gets its terrific flavor from ground brisket, and neither will a soft-shell crab on a toasted brioche. The crab is faultless, but the sandwich belongs in another restaurant. The name of that restaurant is the Dutch. Dishes that would be equally at home there, or at Locanda Verde, are everywhere. This may make fans of those restaurants feel welcome. It may also help Mr. Carmellini move cooks from one kitchen to another. But it doesn't give Lafayette the strong point of view that would make it feel like something more than a good choice in the neighborhood of the Public Theater. Of all the adjectives that might describe a French restaurant built by Andrew Carmellini, Lafayette brings to mind the last one I would have expected: optional. 