 Independent thinkers find this hard to admit, but when you see crowds of New Yorkers standing outside a bakery or putting their names on the list at the door of a restaurant, more often than not the food they're hanging around for is worth eating. Whether it's worth the wait is a separate question. In general, though, the crowds know something. Dominique Ansel Bakery is a wonderland, and Maison Premiere's happy hour is such an amazing bargain that I am afraid that simply mentioning it may spook the owners into charging more than a dollar for each pristine oyster. There are exceptions to this rule. It does not apply to lines formed by tourists who trade their vacation days for a handful of cake crumbs under a waxy helmet of frosting on Bleecker Street. Nor does it apply to lines for brunch. Be wary of the opinions of people who will endure hunger and hangovers for a free mimosa. And so far, the rule does not apply to the lines at Han Dynasty in the East Village, a Sichuan restaurant that has been quoting waiting times at dinner of 45 minutes or more since it opened around Labor Day. This is nothing new for its owner, Han Chiang. Lines have been a feature of the six Han Dynasties he operates in and around Philadelphia. Despite his habit of informing customers, in loud and profane terms, that certain items on the menu should not be ordered by anyone but children, Han Dynasty has been so popular that he plans to open 100 locations around the country. I can think of quite a few towns where this would be great news, but I'm mystified by the popularity of Han Dynasty in Manhattan, where there are far better Sichuan restaurants. Han Dynasty's translation of the cuisine has a thick American accent. Many main courses are heavy on sugar, bell peppers and especially MSG, which is often used in great, slashing doses. They come across as close relatives of the kung pao chicken made by the best Chinese takeout in your neighborhood. In fact, your local joint might do this Sichuan crossover hit better than Han Dynasty, whose version was one of the sweetest and least appealing things on the menu. In the restaurant's anemic interpretation of cumin lamb, floppy bands of meat, drenched in a syrupy sauce, were too wet to give off any of the amazing fragrance of toasted spices that announce the dish's arrival before it reaches the table at Szechuan Gourmet in Midtown, Little Pepper in College Point, Queens, or a dozen other restaurants around town. Under the menu heading "Shifu Special" (shifu means, roughly, chef) is the classic Taiwanese dish Three Cup Chicken. By tradition, the sauce is made with a cup each of rice wine, soy and sesame oil. Han Dynasty seemed to add a cup of sugar, too, and applied so much sauce that the chicken, meant to be served sizzling, arrived in a caramel soup. Apart from the dan dan noodles, which needed more snap from black vinegar, the appetizers were a less cloying crew, their seasoning closer to the Sichuan spirit. Cold rabbit with peanuts in chile oil, with the thrilling, classic combination of red chiles and Sichuan peppercorns, made my lips vibrate like a tuning fork. Dry pepper chicken wings had all the crunch, complexity and aromatic power I'd missed in the cumin lamb. I had hoped that somebody would curse at me when I ordered. It never happened. Actually, the service was unusually friendly and forthcoming with the kinds of detail about the dishes that can be hard to obtain in some Sichuan restaurants. And the egg-yolk-colored paint and modern, Chinese-themed art on the walls give the place some energy. Still, if I want Han Dynasty's wings again, I'll get delivery. A 45-minute wait for the doorbell to ring would be well within reason. There are no lines at Hirohisa, which opened last summer on a quiet SoHo block. Instead there are reservations, which lately have not been hard to come by. In some ways, it's easy to see why the crowds have passed it by. The cooking is very Japanese, in the let-the-ingredients-speak mode that can leave some Americans cold. "It's ... subtle," one person at my table said. "Very subtle," another said. At times, I agreed. Some of the grilled meat courses, for instance, didn't leave an impression on my memory as large as the one they left on the bill. But for the most part, I love the way Hirohisa Hayashi, the chef, brings out the whispering harmonies that result when one small wave of flavor laps against another. He finds those harmonies in the way lightly charred blocks of sesame tofu come together with buttery lobes of sea urchin and shreds of fresh wasabi. And again in the bowl of raw salmon layered over white rice, which becomes a steaming soup as you add roasted green tea from a pot. And again in the gently sweet and seductive stew of lobster in white miso and dashi. But nuanced flavors can also be potent, as an omakase meal last fall made clear. Mr. Hayashi intensified grilled lamb by marinating it in red miso. Served on top of a hunk of grilled tilefish was a slab of broiled foie gras; the heat chased the fat from the liver, and this became the sauce for the fish. It was a dish to make you shake your head twice, once for how luxurious it felt, and again for how simple it was. Hirohisa is a kappo-style restaurant, a form of Japanese dining in which the chef makes both hot and cold dishes behind a counter. There are two kitchen islands floating at the edge of the serene white dining room, one for cold dishes like sashimi and another where the cooking takes place. You watch the action and relax, drink in hand, as if a friend had invited you over for dinner. In this case, you're drinking sake from a list of junmai ("subtle rice and water"), junmai ginjo ("unrestrained challenge") and junmai dai ginjo ("a specific target"). With a carafe on the table, the soft light flowing from alcoves in the ceiling, the chefs bending over their knives, all the lines around the city seem very far away. 