 Someone who used to prowl around CBGB and other clubs when punk and new wave were breaking their first guitar strings told me he had seen one particularly untutored band at least 30 times. "Really?" I asked. "Yeah," he said. "The first 15 times, they were just awful." I didn't need to ask why he had stuck it out because the band was Television, and they went on to harness their early chaos into two obliquely beautiful records. Some restaurants are like that. Even if they don't have the mechanics down yet, their glimmers of originality can keep drawing you back. None of my five meals at the Pines since its opening late last summer in the Gowanus section of Brooklyn has been in the "just awful" category, but two were so frustrating I swore I'd never return. The opening line of my notes on one dinner reads, "I am done with giving this place a chance." Three months later, I was back. That night, the Pines and its chef, Angelo Romano, were in control of their chords and the tempo from start to finish. Dinner began with a short glass of chilled soup, or maybe it was a virgin cocktail: tofu whipped with mint into a frothy green drink. Lolling at the bottom were juicy little Champagne grapes, a burst of sweetness lightening the intensity of the mint. Next was a salad. Wheels of yellow cucumber had been marinated with a yuzu green-chile paste to give them a citric tang and a low burn. They were set beside a pool of almond milk and stacked with thin medallions of more almond milk, this batch thickened to the texture of silken tofu. It was very good, and the next course was simply great: razor clams and trout roe with pinched squares of fresh pasta that Mr. Romano calls borsa vuota, or empty purses. The pasta seemed undercooked and under-clammed until I gave it a stir, sending the purses down to soften in the spicy miso-butter sauce, and bringing up a dividend of extra shellfish and slices of tiny hot red chiles. There had been flashes of excellence before that night, but they had been obscured by hospitality issues, strange kitchen decisions and checks whose totals had a way of ambushing me. The Pines, about a five-minute walk from the Gowanus Canal past windowless industrial buildings and stubby little houses, looks like an indie band sounds. Beat-up pressed tin ceilings have been nailed across some patches of wall, and others are covered in bare wood slats. Spooky dried flowers and herbs hang over the bar, evoking not a Tuscan farmhouse but an abandoned cabin being used for Wiccan rituals. Next to the kitchen is a signboard with cryptic handlettered slogans: Fugazi. Rainbows and Unicorns. Pray 4 Weezy. Beards: They Grow on You. Despite the untucked appearance of the Pines, it is surprisingly easy to spend what you would in a slick Manhattan restaurant. One night I'd rolled in like a drug dealer, hundreds of dollars stuffed in my pocket because I knew the Pines didn't take credit cards. Service was vague and distant. We waited interminably for food, cocktails, even glasses of wine. To settle the check at the end of a long, slow night, I needed about $100 more than I had brought. I knew from the Web site that there was an A.T.M. in the restaurant. It was broken. Lots of businesses are opening on Third Avenue around President Street, but the area is not yet one of the world's banking capitals. After a 10-minute search on foot, I got into my car and drove until I found a cash machine. On other nights, the food was perplexing. Mr. Romano, who cooked at Roberta's before striking out on his own at a short-lived Williamsburg restaurant called Masten Lake , has a discerning eye for prime ingredients, but isn't always as discerning about his ideas. Cappellacci that looked like bishop's miters were filled with a giddily tender and rich oxtail ragù, but the pasta was as thick as shoe box cardboard and nearly as stiff. The cappellacci were undercooked at other meals, too; apparently it's a feature. Coating sea urchin with crunchy BBs of toasted amaranth grains and serving it with tart, astringent sea buckthorn juice struck me as a mean thing to do to a nice, gentle ingredient. Most memorable was the squab -- dry-aged and roasted with its feet on -- that made the bird look as if it were running. It may have been running away from the oven, because one breast was still bloody. The raw-pigeon incident nearly ended my fascination with the Pines. Luckily, though, I remembered eating other things that were distinctive and skillfully prepared. On recent visits, such dishes have become the rule, not the exception. In the spring, Mr. Romano made the smart decision to treat ramp greens like spinach, sautéing them to softness and surrounding them with a concentrated tart-sweet late-harvest vinegar. A fried duck egg and Marcona almonds balanced their garlicky bitterness. This summer, he dressed tender young purslane with a vibrant emulsion of mint and garlic. A savory foam of warmed egg yolks had been shot between the purslane branches, a lovely way of adding creaminess to the crisp greens. Mr. Romano is fond of esoteric ingredients like sea blight and Japanese knotweed, but he can wring terrific results out of more-common ones. Lightly cooked corn juice under slices of roasted pork shoulder offered profound, summery pleasure, and cabbage cooked with fish sauce, sambal and smoked pork jowl layered Asian flavors in an unexpected and very welcome way. And his choice of melted aged beef fat with chunks of bone marrow as a sauce doubled down on the beefy intensity of a Wagyu culotte steak. As my meals have been getting better, the restaurant has been growing up. The no-reservations policy was dropped. The service has become more polished and knowledgeable, ready to tell you what that glass of Slovenian refosco or other wines on Mr. Romano's willfully obscure list will taste like. And as of last week, the Pines accepts some credit cards. These civilities make it easier to take a chance on a night that costs a bit more than the cover charge and a beer at CBGB in 1975. 