 Many restaurants station an employee near the door who can make or break your evening. At Somtum Der in the East Village , that person is not a host who may banish you to a table in the frozen wastes of Siberia but a cook who can set your mouth on fire with the flavors of northeastern Thailand. Wearing a T-shirt and a straw hat, he stands behind the bar, surrounded by glass candy-shop jars filled with shallots; heads of garlic; peanuts and cashews; granules of white sugar and little cakes of palm sugar; blistered sticks of fried pork skin; and, crucially, dried bird's-eye chiles. When an order comes in, he grabs a wooden bat that would come in handy if he were caught in a riot and pounds it against the bottom of a deep wooden mortar. He looks as if he is churning butter. What he is doing is making tart, salty, crisp and exhilaratingly spicy papaya salad. Called som tum in Thailand, papaya salad gave its name to this nearly three-month-old restaurant and is its star attraction, made to order in eight variations. One has brined, boiled eggs, which are fluffy and creamy and soothe the burn of the chiles. Another is seasoned with slivers of grilled pork neck, sweet and pink. The one called som tum poo-plara is darker than the rest in color and in flavor because it's mixed with intensely funky fermented fish sauce and rock-hard miniature crabs scooped up in Thai rice paddies. It was the most complexly rewarding on the roster; the least was the one with rice noodles and sweet chile sauce, which seems to lull the noodles into a shallow, sugary daze. Nearly everybody in Thailand loves papaya salad, but the rest of the country got it from Isan, the vast northeastern plateau. Isan probably got it from Laos, next door, but that's another story. In stalls all around Bangkok, street hawkers from Isan pound green papaya, and in 2012 a pair of restaurateurs brought the mortars indoors to a bright and offhandedly stylish place called Somtum Der. Like the Bangkok original, the East Village branch has knotty-pine walls and ceiling fixtures made from bamboo rice steamers and fish traps that could pass for the work of a modern design studio. To recap, this is a New York replica of a Bangkok restaurant that interprets that city's street-food renditions of traditional Isan cooking . Amazingly, the food survives this journey, and if it has lost some herbs and other ingredients, it is still vibrant, fresh and delicious. It has picked up a few things, too. Although Isan cuisine is on the march in New York, Thanaruek Laoraowirodge and Supanee Kitmahawong, who own Somtum Der, were worried that the city would wilt under the force of an all-Isan menu. With their consulting chef, Kornthanut Thongnum, they have padded it out with dishes from central Thailand. A salad of sardines with mint and improbable quantities of crunchy, fragrant chopped lemon grass is worth a detour from Isan. Somtum Der's drunken noodles or pad Thai with crab are more than credible, too, if you cannot imagine a Thai meal without those standbys. But they are not why you are here. You are here to build an Isan meal around sticky rice, a bowl of soup, a bit of fried or grilled meat and rustic, fiery salads. Very few dishes cost more than $12, and this is one restaurant where the refrain of "small plates meant for sharing" is not just accurate but culturally appropriate, so order as many as the table can hold. (Or maybe not quite that many. The food launches out of the kitchen quickly and relentlessly, and I felt lost in an avalanche until I learned to order about half of what I meant to eat, and then, when it was gone, put in a second order.) You want a larb or two, one of the chopped salads lavished with chiles and mint and a dusting of toasted ground rice that crackles between your teeth. The larbs with chopped duck and pork are very good. The one with crunchy flakes of grilled catfish that soak up the lime and fish sauce is even more satisfying. Another takes the opposite strategy, with minced mushrooms that don't absorb the dressing at all but quietly allow the fresh herbs and chiles to sing out. Animal proteins do not demand the center of the plate in Isan cuisine, and while pork turns up frequently, it's possible to put together an excellent vegetarian dinner at Somtum Der. Carnivores, though, will want at least one fried or grilled meat. Skewers of beef or pork marinated in coconut milk didn't hold much interest, but the grilled "house special" pork did, especially when it was dipped in savory, salty jaew sauce. Of the deep-fried dishes splashed across two pages on the full-color picture menu, sun-dried beef and pork with fried leaves of Kaffir lime made an easy-to-crave snack on their own, while the Isan sausages and pork roll worked better as pauses between spicy bites of larb and papaya salad. The restaurant is proud of its chicken thigh under a shower of fried garlic; it might have been wonderful straight out of the oil, but it was distinctly warmed over when I had it. Above all, you want papaya salad, absolutely, and you want it as spicy as you can stand. Somtum Der measures heat on a chile-pepper scale, with four chiles denoting a psychotropic level of spice. The cooks don't always interpret this the same way, even on the same night, but most of the time a four-chile papaya salad will mean five minutes during which you are incapable of doing anything but sweating, squirming, trying to blot your tongue with rice and gulping mouthfuls of Beer Lao . A lager from Laos, Beer Lao is a definite notch in quality above Singha, and several notches above Somtum Der's stabs at Asianesque cocktails. It will, however, be all but useless if you are in the grips of a papaya salad armed with four-chile firepower by the man near the door. In that case, there is nothing you can do but wait. 