 "They say we're looking at two hours. They'll call us." This was the grim report from inside the latest East Village restaurant to have turned its no-reservations policy into a viral marketing campaign. A small, hungry mob was gathering on the sidewalk. Hoping to find a pleasant place to drink and snack until the phone rang, I herded my group to Huertas, a new Basque-leaning tapas place a few blocks away. The room smelled like garlic and smoke. A cured pig's leg sat at the end of the bar, its ankle held tightly in a clamp. A sharp knife had exposed its interior architecture of meat and fat and sinew. Later, we ordered a few slices of this Iberico ham, and as it melted on our tongues, warm and salty, we all traded looks. We did it again when we ate crumbly shards of aged manchego that tasted of brown butter and caramel. The looks meant: This kitchen knows where to get the good stuff. That applied to many things we ate that night. Jonah Miller, Huertas's chef, has written a concise menu of Basque-inspired tapas, not all of which could be called cooking and a fair amount of which is canned. I am not revealing any secrets here. Some food is still in its can when it comes to the table, like the dense mackerel in olive oil, which we ate, happily, on sliced baguettes with pimentón aioli. "All the best Basque seafood goes straight into cans," our server told us, and she was so convincing that we asked if she knew a store that sold these marvelous cans. She did. She also knew where we could buy the manchego, which she was as excited about as we were. From the front door to the table, our service had been proactively friendly and enthusiastic. In New York, servers who learn that night's menu are rare enough; here was one who seemed to know everything about every ingredient. She told us about a restaurant in San Sebastián, where the chef had come out of the kitchen to point out the most delicious parts of a turbot, showing her how to scoop out his favorite part, the cheeks. Then she took a deep breath and said: "Spain, you guys." It wasn't all cans and hams in Mr. Miller's kitchen, not that I would have minded. We asked for something called Huertas rotos, which turned out to be the Basque dish huevos rotos interpreted as a kind of pasta dish. Skinny threads of potato were cooked al dente and tossed with chorizo and its oil, with a soft-cooked egg on top. It was gone in 30 seconds. We drank vermouth, made on site, while every few minutes somebody came around with a tray of small bites straight from the kitchen. There was egg salad on a slice of baguette, with a sweet red shrimp on top; a golden croqueta of rice with creamy mushrooms in the center; and sweet roasted piquillo peppers stuffed with a cheesy, porky froth of fresh sausage whipped into goat cheese. These came in single servings that you could take or decline, depending on how good they looked and how hungry you were. Each plate you took was marked down on a card, dim-sum style, by servers. Huertas calls these items pintxos, a Basque term for snacks smaller than tapas and pinned together with a toothpick. In Spain, pintxos do not circulate like dim sum. (Mr. Miller got the idea from State Bird Provisions in San Francisco.) Yet we felt much closer to the Spanish tapas-bar spirit than if we had ordered 10 or 15 "small plates meant for sharing" at once, passed them around the table and called it dinner. This is rarely a satisfying way to eat, but it's how many Spanish restaurants in New York deal with tapas. The Huertas modified dim-sum approach was perfect for people like us, who want to start with drinks and see how the night goes without being forced to turn tapas into dinner. The way this night went was that by the time the other restaurant called, we didn't want to leave. I went back to Huertas a week or two later. I had made reservations for the small, square back dining room, where Mr. Miller serves a set menu for $55. In the front room, the plates are unconnected episodes, and you supply the narrative yourself. In the back, you settle in while Mr. Miller tells a story in five courses. He started with a nod to the front room, a plate of little bites. There were gildas, found in every tapas bar in San Sebastián, sharp, clean and salty skewers of white anchovy threaded with spicy green pepper and an olive. There was a blistered mound of Padrón peppers and garlic shrimp on toothpicks, too, not the sweetest or firmest I'd ever eaten. This was an anomaly; in general, the cooking at Huertas stands out for its pure, fresh flavors. Then a separated egg. The white, fried, lay under a jumble of corn and tomatoes cooked quickly with crisp-chewy pimentón-cured bacon. The yolk, raw, sat on top and served as sauce. Next was skate, sweet and still a little juicy inside, with roasted turnips and a pale-green, herbaceous sauce of puréed turnip greens and fennel. The seasonal Greenmarket aesthetic was familiar to me. Would any Basques recognize the dish? They would know the next course, wonderful garlic-and-pimentón-scented lamb hot dogs called chistorra, even though they would be used to seeing chistorras made with pork or beef. Alongside these house-made sausages, Mr. Miller had a wonderful succotash of late-summer beans. Dessert was a dream, a round and closely packed little goat-cheese cheesecake with a topping of candied almonds instead of a bottom crust. More tangy than sugary, the cake took beautifully to a sauce made from ripe nectarines. This night and a later one made it clear that dinner in Huertas's back room ranks among the best deals in town, up there with the how-do-they-do-it bargains at Contra and Delaware & Hudson. Mr. Miller shapes his menus so skillfully that it's hard to imagine wanting more. Still, once the familiar conventions of the modern tasting menu kicked in, I did steal a few looks at the front room, where a tray of hot croquetas always seemed to be going around. Maybe I wanted more spontaneity. Or maybe I just wanted a croqueta. 