 A few opulent restaurants opened right after the economy fell apart in 2008, like guests who pound on the door long after the lights have been turned out and the hosts have gone to bed. The rest of the city looked up from a collective hangover at their flashy outfits and expectant smiles and said, "Um, the party's kind of over, dude." Armani Ristorante, inside the Armani store on Fifth Avenue in Midtown, was one of those late arrivals. The mood in the city was humbled, downsized, frightened, and here was an expensive restaurant reached by a private elevator from the street or, better, a sinuous white ramp that twisted past two floors of gowns and luxury leather goods like a floating catwalk. After a lunch there in early 2009, Frank Bruni, then the New York Times restaurant critic, wrote a blog post noting that "the whole thing just feels sort of tone-deaf and odd." He never reviewed the restaurant, which seemed likely to end up in the same landfill where they'd deposited the carcass of Lehman Brothers. Some people's money is more durable than others', though. Giorgio Armani apparently kept pumping his into the restaurant, his first in New York. Here it is today, as another New York Fashion Week sashays to a close. The restaurant's kitchen is now under Sandro Romano, who arrived last spring after seven years as chef de cuisine at the Modern . The catwalk is intact, and tiny blue and purple lights still twinkle in the windows over Fifth Avenue. The white circular booths with black leather tops are still there, too, looking like the Mad Tea Party ride at Disney World, transported to Armani World. Dolled up like that, Armani Ristorante will always be somewhat odd. But since the stock indexes hit record highs in August, it hasn't seemed quite as tone deaf. With main courses averaging around $35, it is cheaper than (don't laugh) Carbone , and in the same range as some Upper East Side Italian stalwarts where the cooking and service aren't as refined. If the prices are out of touch, then so are large patches of Manhattan. Yes, if you ask for sparkling water, you will get Acqua Armani. Does the bottle, skinny as a fashion editor and stamped with a big block A, justify $11? I'd say no, but I'd say yes to the wine list, which has a surprisingly generous number of wines under $50. One night while I was scanning the Southern Italian whites, a sommelier materialized at my elbow and pointed right away to a crisp and sunny Sicilian grillo for $39. You'd have trouble matching that price at some downtown joints that pass as inexpensive. The sommelier did this without making me feel like a cheapskate. Another server showed similar discretion one night when a woman at my table immediately peeled back the glittering silver skin from a branzino fillet. "Ah, but that's where all the flavor is," he protested briefly, then flashed a wide smile that beamed understanding. He was right about the skin. It was the best part of a lovely dish, its slight fattiness offset by cracked pink peppercorns and sage. Mr. Romano sets the fish on a green circle of Italian salsa verde made from arugula and fresh herbs blended with olive oil. The bright taste of the raw greens is just what this mild but meaty fish needs. Mr. Romano has a sensitive hand with seafood. It was on display on a long plate that held five raw tastes of the ocean, like branzino dyed purple by a bath in beet juice, and a sweet, firm langoustine with tart little bits of green apple. He mimics the look of seared sea scallops with short stacks of meltingly rich potato gratin. Shaved black truffles looked dramatic but didn't follow through with the expected flavor; all the pleasure was in the gentle interplay of the potatoes and scallops. The only seafood letdown was baby octopus, which had even less flavor than the truffles. Remarkably good polenta was wasted on those bland little legs. Pasta was a trickier proposition. Lasagnetta, a tower of roasted eggplant slices layered with tomato sauce, smoked scamorza and fresh pasta rolled very thin, was a little like eggplant Parmesan and a little like lasagna, but more delicate than either, getting restrained richness from basil oil and a Parmigiano-Reggiano sauce. Spaghetti and shaved dried tuna roe, on the other hand, got no help from slabs of tuna belly that were as mushy as a black banana. And green tagliolini was overdressed with a muddle of mushrooms and truffles and two whole langoustines dropped in the center of the bowl. Removing one accessory, Coco Chanel-style, would have focused the flavors and helped lower the ridiculous $38 price tag. I chalked both misfires up to an off night. They and other dishes didn't have the same sparkle I'd seen on my other two visits, making me wonder if Mr. Romano is still consolidating control over the kitchen. His menu is at its best when it takes its cues from the understated style of Milan, Mr. Armani's base of power. The rice in black risotto with speck-wrapped cuttlefish had precisely the firm but creamy texture it should. And when the bone-in veal chop Milanese showed up, I just sat there smiling for a minute because I could tell from the gorgeous, tanned crust how much fun I was going to have eating it. Apart from gravity-bound bomboloni, the desserts were worth giving up any dreams I might have of fitting into something sold by Armani other than a sofa . There is a fine molten chocolate cake, called a fondente, with an espresso gelato that has the licorice kick of Sambuca. A puff of raspberry mousse and tongues of meringue topped a barely set panna cotta. My favorite was the least traditional: an after-dinner salad of strawberries, and inky balsamic vinegar with micro-wedges of tomato and a refreshing basil gelato. While the prices aren't quite so out of step with the times, nobody would describe Armani Ristorante as of the moment. The tiny colored lights and view above the sidewalks always reminded me of two places from an earlier era: Windows on the World and the revolving lounge at the top of the Marriott Marquis in Times Square. I miss the first one and still like the second one, so maybe I'm the one who's late to Mr. Armani's party. 