 Expectations are everything. It was hard to know what to expect when April Bloomfield, the British-born chef who has been New York's chief importer of the gastro-pub ethos since she opened the Spotted Pig , announced that her latest project would be called Salvation Taco. Although she consulted with the chef of two local Mexican restaurants, Roberto Santibañez, it seemed likely that Mexican tradition would not be treated as law. But when a restaurant has two words in its name and one of them is taco, you might think the star attraction will be a fat bundle of something hot and tasty folded inside a warm tortilla with a sauce that adds intrigue and excitement. That describes almost none of the tacos I ate at this jammed and noisy five-month-old restaurant inside the Pod 39 hotel in Murray Hill. The tortillas were a little bigger than an English muffin. A small taco can be a great taco, but these were topped so minimally and sauced so timidly that masa was virtually all I could taste. A swipe of curried crema was not enough to bring four tiny and stubbornly bland cauliflower florets to life. A relish of charred onions and pomegranate molasses might have lifted two little fried sweetbreads out of dullness if there had been more than a small blotch of it. Those tiny portions cooled quickly. Often the fillings were cold, the tortillas going stiff, a shame because they are freshly pressed and griddled. Even the miniature naan that stood in for a tortilla in one taco was so firm one day that it was unbendable, although on another it folded obediently around chunks of spiced lamb. Stacked in a covered basket, though, Salvation's masa tortillas are tender, warm and seductively fragrant. This is how they are served if you order one of the "family-style feasts," impressive platters of protein that you tear apart and pile into tacos yourself. Two of these were spectacular: the ham hock, with a fruity and tart chile-tamarind glaze; and the cumin and pepper-rubbed lamb shoulder, so intensely flavorful it was as if three lambs had been distilled down to a single super-lamb. Rolling your own will get you a terrific taco, but some of the tables are so narrow it's a bit like performing surgery on an airplane seatback tray. Ken Friedman, Ms. Bloomfield's business partner in Salvation Taco (as well as the Spotted Pig, the John Dory Oyster Bar and the Breslin ), has gone for a psychedelic, polytheistic thrift-store look, filling two rooms with Japanese lanterns, glass Buddhas, Hindu gods, Christian saints and a painting of a cowboy angel by the Rev. Howard Finster. At least it supplied some visual distractions on a Friday night when a promised 90-minute wait for a table stretched to two hours. Dishes that seemed out of place in a taqueria often had a good reason for being there, including the fried pig ears sprinkled with ground chiles; a soup of kimchi, pork and hominy with the hot-and-sour potency of some Sichuan stews; and the dark, terrifically complex beef chili, long on the fruity flavor of dried chile peppers if somewhat short on meat. But the things you'd hope any taqueria would nail could be dispiriting. Guacamole was sensationally well seasoned with lime and serranos, but always arrived cold. Margaritas were strangely flat, a mariachi band without trumpets. An al pastor quesadilla needed more heat, more cheese and, crucially, any amount of pineapple, which was missing entirely. At least two-thirds of the white cubes in a ceviche turned out to be not fish but apples. There is also a lamb tongue sandwich that the menu calls a torta. It had the bread you'd expect, a bulkie roll dabbed with refried beans, but none of the trimmings: no lettuce, tomatoes, onions or mayonnaise. The tongue, poached and grilled, was wonderfully done, and so was the chimichurri of raw herbs, lime and olive oil. The only thing the sandwich needed was the crusty Italian roll that Ms. Bloomfield might have chosen if Salvation Taco was not supposed to be a Mexican restaurant. To redraw my taco baseline, I went to the Bronx. At Taqueria Tlaxcalli in the Parkchester neighborhood, I found golden gorditas, flying saucers of fried masa filled with a crunchy mash of chicharrones. These little pork puffs make impressively complex snacks with the addition of a cooked tomato salsa that had almost as much smoke as heat. I found hand-pinched sopes filled with refried beans and crumbled chorizo browned to a heavy-duty crackle that was softened by cilantro, onions, fresh cheese and crema. I found a crisp, citrusy and spicy cactus salad that was a model of unpretentious salad craftsmanship, and a torta constructed to maximize the collisions of warm and cool, crunchy and soft that are the source of the sandwich's charms. I found juicy fajitas and even juicier alambres, a stir-fry of meat, green peppers and onions under a poof of melted queso Oaxaca and four folded tortillas. And I found tacos that filled out their warm corn tortillas the way a fat man fills out a hammock. The meats were canonical: al pastor bright red with chiles and topped with pineapple; tender barbacoa to make a convert out of goat skeptics; and deeply savory carnitas that were somehow both creamy and crunchy. The exterior of Taqueria Tlaxcalli (pronounced TLOSH-collie), with a neon Corona sign under an awning in a shade of pink that looks like lipstick at the end of a long night, tells you to move on. The interior, with mango-colored walls, lime-green ceramic pitchers and marbled blue pendant lights, tells you to stay. You may be here for a while if you come during the dinner rush, when the cooks working at slapstick speed become mired in delivery orders. And some larger plates, like knife-resistant pounded steak in a thin guajillo sauce or the chicken enchiladas in a soupy and droningly bitter mole poblano, were not worth the delay. But the guacamole, freshly mashed in a molcajete, the traditional rough stone mortar, always appeared within minutes. Taqueria Tlaxcalli also makes a stew of cactus, onions and strips of chicken or steak in an angry red sauce or, my favorite, a tangy cooked tomatillo sauce. All versions are served, seething, inside a hot molcajete -- the name of the stew. Mauricio Gómez founded Taqueria Tlaxcalli seven years ago because he was homesick for the food he had grown up with in Mexico City. For new immigrants, a little homesickness is to be expected, but a restaurant as solidly good as Mr. Gómez's is always a happy surprise. 