 IN HIS LANDMARK STUDY FROM 1971, "The Food of Italy," Waverley Root divided that nation into 19 distinct culinary regions. The book is a classic, its insights and prose recipes still tantalizing four decades later, but it contains a major oversight. Mr. Root says nothing at all about the Italian Upper East Side. In this chunk of the earth that broke off from the boot and drifted 4,300 miles across the ocean before colliding with Manhattan, the restaurant menus resemble one another more than they do the menus of Emilia-Romagna, Campania or Umbria. Ligurian pesto, Tuscan steak, Roman pasta all'amatriciana and Sicilian cannoli live together in harmony. Salad is an antipasto, truffles never go out of season, and beets with goat cheese is a combination as time-honored as tomatoes and olive oil. Caravaggio, which opened in 2009 around the corner from the Whitney Museum of American Art, makes a strong bid to win respect in its wayward region. Owned by Giuseppe, Antonio, Cosimo and Geraldo Bruno, the four brothers who also run Sistina and San Pietro not far away, it is one of the most civilized Italian restaurants to turn up anywhere in the city in the last few years. Plumes of fresh flowers (cherry blossoms in early April, calla lilies later in the month) line one side of the hallway to the dining room; on the other is a framed print by -- oh, hello, signed Matisse lithograph. Inside are more flowers, and much more art: a pair of Ellsworth Kelly prints, a pair of Frank Stella paintings, all four bought from the widow of William Rubin, the former curator of painting and sculpture at the Museum of Modern Art. On a commission from the Brunos, the painter Donald Baechler has covered the entire back wall with a crowd of the eeriest children in the world. With their terrified eyes and gaping red mouths, they look as if they might be friends of Dick and Jane's who have just watched Spot eat Puff. The mural is unsettling, but it has the hovering, electric presence of real art. Caravaggio is defiantly elegant in an age that sees white tablecloths as a medieval relic whose sadistic power to stand in the way of a good time is second only to that of the chastity belt. The tables are draped with linens, ceiling baffles keep the noise to a low burble, and streamlined chocolate-leather chairs offer a quaint amenity known as lumbar support. Another anachronism: a dress code. Jeans, shorts and sneakers are not permitted, the Web site says, although in practice only the ban on shorts is enforced. Jackets and ties are not required, but nearly all the men wear them, along with haircuts that seem to have been tidied up at Paul Molé a day or two ago. The women seem to have had their hair done even more recently. Caravaggio's loyalists are so well groomed, it is humbling. "We are among our betters," a companion said one night. The plates are just as carefully put together, assembled with a sharp eye for color and shape. Caravaggio has a roasted swordfish that is an Italian flag in seafood form, the white fillet sitting between a red pond of puréed tomato sauce and a frothy green sea of oregano sauce. And it served me one of the prettiest veal chops I've ever seen, trimmed into a thick, nearly perfect circle and evenly, handsomely browned. Osso buco with saffron risotto, which may be the official dish of the Italian Upper East Side, looked better than ever and was almost ideally cooked, the meat tender and rose-tinted, the rice firm and creamy. But Caravaggio, for all its civility, is haunted by inconsistency more than three years into its run. Some of my meals there were very good; in others, I couldn't find a single dish to get excited about, and there were a few that were just not right at all. The same kitchen that dressed perfectly al dente spaghetti with a wonderfully balanced pesto of dried nuts and tomatoes put too many tomatoes in a Sicilian sardine and fennel sauce and tossed the result with bucatini that were crunchy and hard at one end. Dover sole was cooked to show off the firm delicacy that makes it such a treat, but the swordfish wrapped in the Italian flag should have come out of the oven at least two minutes sooner. Scallops, shrimp and tiny squid rings were sweet and tender, and while serving them warm over braised leeks with a lobster reduction may have stretched the definition of a seafood salad, it was so good nobody would ever complain. But in another appetizer, octopus tentacles had no flavor at all; they were nothingness with suction cups. Caravaggio's bomboloni, sprinkled with cinnamon sugar and served hot in a figure-8 dish with vanilla sauce and caramel, were light enough to achieve liftoff. But the floury, dry torta di ricotta remained depressingly earthbound. First-time travelers should be warned: no matter what the euro is trading at, the exchange rate on the Italian Upper East Side is always awful. It is especially unfavorable at Caravaggio, where salads begin at $18, and most of the pastas hover around $25. This ought to be enough to buy bucatini that is cooked on both ends. Service, slightly formal but relaxed enough to crack a smile, often lived up to Caravaggio's aspirations. But there could be unscheduled leaves of absence after main courses were cleared, and one night one server after another tried to take our order before anyone had told us about the specials. When someone finally did, the recitation went on for almost five minutes, covering at least a dozen dishes. It felt like a memory quiz, one I always flunked until I started writing the correct answer on my palm: just get the chicken meatballs. They are made from white meat mixed with capers, sun-dried tomatoes, thyme and enough milk-soaked bread to give them some loft, and they are braised in tomato sauce, but none of this quite accounts for their appeal. The appeal of fickle and expensive Caravaggio is easier to explain. For great Italian cooking, much of the action is in thunderous and flashy downtown dining rooms. The civilized style of a place like Caravaggio feels as rare and impressive as a blue whale. That would draw me back, along with the chicken meatballs, the bomboloni, those spooky kids and the chance that one day the restaurant will put the Italian Upper East Side on the map. 