 Not long ago, the highest praise for a Brooklyn restaurant was "like Manhattan." With Franny's , which opened in Prospect Heights in 2004, the geographical reference point started to shift west. Francine Stephens and Andrew Feinberg had worked in kitchens and dining rooms in Manhattan, but their restaurant borrowed some of its values from Northern California. Like Delfina in San Francisco and the cafe at Chez Panisse, Franny's served thin-crust pizzas topped with farmers' market produce and meats cured in the kitchen. In the spirit of the Bay Area, Franny's stood for food that was earnest, handmade, low-tech, unfussy and, of course, local-and-sustainable, pronounced as one word even then. (The back of Franny's menu told you who had grown everything on the pizzas and salads, and where.) Today, Brooklyn and Berkeley seem connected by an underground tunnel in which hybrid vehicles carry curing salts, butchery manuals and biodynamic wines back and forth below the continent. But at the time, nobody thought that West Coast sunshine was going to rescue the borough of brownstones and strollers from Manhattan's long shadow. A few months ago, Franny's moved across Flatbush Avenue to a bigger and busier space, with a second pizza oven and towers of takeout boxes by the bar. Maybe it was inevitable that as it grew, Franny's would feel less like a mom-and-pop mission and more like a business. In the churn and hustle, your pizza might show up with blisters of char the size of baseballs. Your beet salad might look a little more slapped-together than you remember from the early days. On the other hand, all those new tables mean you might start eating much sooner, because Franny's generally doesn't take reservations. Meanwhile, Ms. Stephens and Mr. Feinberg have converted the original Franny's into a new trattoria called Marco's . Some of the small-scale spirit survives next to a newfound maturity and comfort. The lights are gentler, the room more handsome, the tables less cramped. The places are set with dead-grandmother silverware. At the bar of radiantly white marble, you can raise a bittersweet Italian aperitif, on the rocks or folded into a cocktail, then move to the table you reserved by phone, without having to slide past some toddler's half-eaten pizza. It is among the most civilized first acts that dining in Brooklyn offers. The chef is Danny Amend, who fought in the trenches at Franny's for six years. On his menu, antipasti are followed by pastas that are succeeded by fish and meats. This sounds like Italy, but it tastes like Northern California. The late San Francisco chef Judy Rodgers may have thought up the casually Mediterranean and very charming fried egg, sunny-side up, crisscrossed with rosemary needles and sent out with roasted mushrooms and sweet, soft pumpkin. Paul Bertolli may have grilled the duck gizzards on a double-pronged skewer and served them with a jammy puddle of red grape must. There is a loose, Cal-Ital freedom to the way Mr. Amend spoons saffron-pickled fennel over oysters that have been rushed into and out of the wood oven. These oysters are hot and smoky, but still as fat and juicy as when they were raw. They come five to a plate. There were four of us. About two seconds later, I ordered more. Not only did I look like a genius to the other people at the table, but I got a second oyster. Smoke can be an invisible ingredient at Marco's. I couldn't always find it in the same dish from one week to the next, but it was always there in those oysters and gizzards, and on some nights it was there in three delicious main courses: the black sea bass that pulled apart into soft, glistening flakes; the spit-roasted pork loin with a crust of herbs; the lamb chops generously sharing their delicious pink juices with a bed of toast brushed with fresh dill. A lot of rustic Italian cooking in New York is either simple but dull, or flavorful but overworked. Mr. Amend has a knack, all too rare, of building flavor without appearing to go to much trouble about it. The worst moments at Franny's can arrive with the check, when you learn that pizza night with the kids had cost more than a week of groceries. It is a sneakily expensive pizzeria. Marco's is for the most part a reasonably priced trattoria, although the sense of value can come and go without warning. The pork loin was $21, and I took home enough for lunch the next day. For an exceptionally good braised chicken with a sticky pan sauce that clung to tender leaves of cabbage, $25 seemed completely fair. But for $21, a squid main course was smaller than many appetizers, and there were so few gigante beans on an $8 side dish that I counted them: 12 ½. Mr. Amend also made a bowl of steamed Carolina gold rice that was sweetly nutty, lightly vinegared and unnaturally fluffy; it cost $7, and if he would have asked, I would have given him my credit card and let him charge whatever he wanted. It was almost satisfying enough to be grouped with the primi, an imposing bunch led by silky pockets of agnolotti filled with soft, warm fontina. Bucatini tossed with garlic, anchovy essence and walnuts was very good, although more finely chopped nuts would have had more flavor. The one pasta that let me down was slightly overcooked tagliatelle with prosciutto, a simple dish that didn't transcend its simplicity. Desserts have the lean Italian outlook sweetened with a little extra sugar: a wedge of polenta-buckwheat cake with fig preserves; soft crescents of quince poached in syrup; a light honey pudding with crumbly biscuit-like buckwheat cookies. Any time I left Franny's feeling as if my pocket had been picked, the wine list was a prime suspect. I'd walk in thinking beer, and within five minutes I was drinking franciacorta. The list at Marco's is virtually all Italian and even more dangerous, especially if you are vulnerable to Piedmontese reds, but prices, in legal-disclaimer-size type on dark paper, are almost illegible without a flashlight app. Smart drinkers will ask for help, which was always close at hand. A manager gave me smart and enthusiastic wine guidance, but everyone working in Marco's dining room was poised, observant and informed. The level of service is like Manhattan. These days I probably need to add that I mean that as a compliment. 