 WHEN MY GUEST in the Dining Room at the Modern realized he could order three courses of foie gras, he looked like somebody who had just found a $50 bill on the street. He would have extended his streak to four courses, I think, had the menu offered a foie gras dessert. As it turned out, his appetizer would have worked almost as well as a finale. The Modern's chef, Gabriel Kreuther, scooped out little balls of duck liver terrine and rolled them in crumbs of fried celery root so they looked like nut-crusted bonbons. These counterfeit candies were set on a rectangle of mango and passion fruit sauce within scribbles of syrupy balsamic vinegar, bringing out an unsuspected kinship between the terrine and ganache. In the second course, foie gras was a star protein, poached in red wine. This time its garnishes -- bittersweet chocolate tuile, pickled red currants and a peppery caramel -- worked as foils to show up its seriousness and depth. Then in the third course, it took a step back, serving as a sauce that enriched slices of squab breast baked in savoy cabbage inside a shatteringly thin brik crust. The three dishes could have been a monotonous episode in self-indulgence. Instead they were a memorable demonstration of the skill, inventiveness and discipline that permit Mr. Kreuther to make his ingredients do what he wants them to do while still tasting like themselves. Those traits made my recent meals in the Dining Room at the Modern a pleasure and something of a discovery, if one can discover an eight-year-old restaurant run by Danny Meyer inside the Museum of Modern Art . When the Dining Room was last reviewed in The New York Times, in 2005, Frank Bruni praised its "significant joys," including much of the food, but warned of "uneven terrain" on the menu. At the time, the far more casual and livelier Bar Room up front met its promises more fully, as Mr. Bruni suggested when he awarded that space three stars in a later review, one more than he had given the Dining Room. The Bar Room still has more energy, but the cooking in the Dining Room has more focus and intensity than I remember from the early days. Mr. Kreuther's dishes in this space are more complicated than the more rustic ones in the Bar Room, but the complications pay off in rewarding layers of harmony and contrast. Two cured fillets of sardine (one smooth and silver, the other crackling and golden with a thin sheet of brioche seared to its skin) were outfitted with crisp artichoke chips and dots of artichoke purée, but the warm heart of the dish was a bright sauce of tomato confit, black garlic, green olives, roasted red peppers and blood oranges. Eat it and you almost felt the summer sun beating down on your head. Other recent dishes invited you to burrow into winter's consolations. Sweet apple-wood smoke made its way into every bite of a sturgeon and sauerkraut tart topped with a glittering vein of caviar. It was elegant and powerful, like the pairing of a luxuriously soft poached egg with squid-ink spaetzle, sea urchin, roasted salsify and fragments of black truffles. The white walls and tablecloths, and the grid of steel and glass facing the museum's sculpture garden, suggest a contemporary gallery. This graceful, understated room stands back so the artistry can happen on the plate. Mr. Kreuther follows through. He is bold with color, painting salmon crimson with a marinade of beet juice, or drawing a dark green stripe of powdered Kaffir lime down the center of a monkfish fillet resting in a gorgeous sauce of blood orange and mustard. He is intrepid with flavor as well. Roasted lobster tail seemed complete with a smoky pimento broth that I would have happily drunk from a teacup, but then a server brought something extra, a tiny portion of tender claw meat under a wheel of burned sugar that went beyond caramel by several degrees of bitterness. It was daring and wonderful. One or two dares didn't pay off, like juxtaposition of pear purée and bay scallops. There were technical glitches, too, like the bottom crust on the sturgeon tart that was crisp one night but damp on another, or the piece of cobia cooked to the point of dryness on one side. Yet the next act of each four-course, $98 fixed-price dinner would invariably set things right again. This was especially true for Marc Aumont's desserts, fresh looks at European classics like a black currant vacherin or a Black Forest cake rendered as an array of cubes, cones and spheres. Calling something modern puts it at risk of looking dated, as one or two things at the Modern do. A flurry of amuse-bouches always included a test tube full of hot liquid. Are we still pretending this is a fun way to drink soup? And the charcoal gray suits with collarless shirts the servers wear look like costumes from a sci-fi film about a dystopian, genderless future. The vented jackets in particular don't do the women any favors. As you notice this, though, you also notice just how many women there are in the front of the house, along with others who don't look like men of European descent. It is a pleasure to see this kind of diversity at the higher altitudes of New York dining, where it is still not the rule. The staff was always attentive and mindful, helping diners navigate food allergies, for instance. At moments, though, the service felt disengaged and aloof in ways than can make this formal room feel chillier than it needs to be. (When I heard happy, intoxicated shouts from the Bar Room, I felt as if I'd joined the wrong club.) One night, the server driving the mignardise trolley acted as if listing the whole catalog of sweets would make the meal longer than it needed to be, and suggested that she make the choice for us instead. Another night, it was wheeled around by someone who seemed to have been waiting all night for the chance to tell us about the Calvados lollipops, the saffron truffles, the macadamia pralines and the make-your-own sandwich cookies of butter wafers and chocolate ganache in a tube. By drawing out the moment, our server made it one to remember. Like the trolley, the restaurant itself is full of unexpected delights. Unpacking them one by one is the pleasant work of a meal. 