 A woman I once worked with had a facility for languages that was matched by her self-assurance. The rest of us had a hard time keeping track of her various proficiencies, and one time we asked her to remind us whether she knew Chinese. "Oh, I would love to learn Chinese," she said. "But I just don't have eight weeks to spare." Too bad she isn't a chef. Very few have eight weeks to spare these days, but that doesn't stop them when, in pursuit of empire building, they decide to learn some other nation's food. By the time the news releases are ready, a week's vacation has become a research trip, and a snack bought with pocket change has become a $13 appetizer. Mexico is a favorite destination for these immersion courses. This has led to the illusion that New York is enjoying a boom in serious Mexican cuisine, when in fact what the city is experiencing is a handful of restaurants that present, some more convincingly than others, a chef's south-of-the-border fantasies. Before he opened Cosme on East 21st Street in October, the chef Enrique Olvera reversed the process. He already had a pretty good handle on the cuisine of Mexico, having grown up and now owning a flock of restaurants there, including the globally acclaimed Pujol. Mr. Olvera's research trips were to Manhattan instead. He studied its dining rooms, its menus, its cocktails and its customers. He was clearly taking notes, because he shows an uncannily state-of-the-art instinct for what New Yorkers want when they go out for dinner. Cosme is cool, but isn't trend-chasing. It's crowded and lively, but isn't painfully loud. It's comfortable, but isn't coddling. Most of all, the cooking is a thrill, largely because it sails right over ideas like tradition, authenticity and modernity. Many underpinnings come from Mexico, while a lot of the ingredients were bought locally. The flavors are here and now, though; you connect with the dishes right away. In the style of places like Estela, many seafood and vegetable dishes turn out to be salads, or something like a salad, approachable, simple-seeming assemblages with a jolt of the unexpected. White ayocote beans, which look like cannellinis and are as creamy as any bean I've tasted, are surrounded by mixed greens and sliced radishes, all looking innocent enough; it's the habaneros and charred cucumbers in the dressing that get you. The raw hamachi dabbed with lime and jalapeño sounds like another crudo variation, but the jalapeños are fermented and the limes dried until they turn black; together their flavor is so intense it could walk through bricks. Scallops and poached jicama, cut into white discs that you can't tell apart until you bite down, are dressed with lime juice and cucumber; it seems like a traditional aguachile, but the sneaky, sideways heat comes from grated wasabi. Mr. Olvera doesn't use heat and spice as weapons; he uses them like a pen, to sharpen and define the outlines of a dish. Dried ground chiles provide some backbone to a sweet pineapple purée served with firm, flavorful cobia and warm tortillas, for making an exhilarating seafood version of tacos al pastor. Whenever a stack of fresh tortillas arrived, I would pull one from its folded napkin, hold it up to my face and inhale. It was a motion I hadn't made since grade school, when I would bring the purple-smudged handouts still warm from the Ditto copier up to my nose to breathe in their sweet, forbidden, chemical smell, like rubbing alcohol mixed with danger. The aroma of these tortillas was completely wholesome -- like flowers, bread straight from the oven, and a baby's cheek at the same time -- but I still wanted to fall headfirst into it the way I did with Ditto solvent. There are no tortillas remotely like this in New York. Cosme makes them downstairs in the kitchen from old strains of blue, yellow, purple and white corn grown in Mexico. The tortillas are one of the few reminders around if you forget for a moment that Cosme is a Mexican restaurant. Many of the kitchen's innovations probably shouldn't be copied, because they depend on Mr. Olvera's deep knowledge of Mexican food together with his understanding of what's being cooked in Copenhagen, Chicago and Lima. But one idea that I hope other Mexican restaurateurs steal is the decision to go without all the props (sombreros, grinning calaveras) that say, "Hola, amigos, have a margarita!" The furthest Cosme goes in that direction are the small potted succulents on every table. Yana Volfson, Cosme's drinks mastermind, reacted as if we'd stepped on her foot when we asked if mezcal (she has quite a collection) would be poured into rustic clay cups; no, she said, it goes into clear, modern glasses. The dining room hangs in a pool of darkness, where black ceilings and walls recede while shafts of light beam down onto the tops of the tables. You see what you're eating and whom you're eating it with; that's about it. The menu is not built around familiar Mexican signposts like enchiladas, either; it's just a long list of dishes, all of roughly the same size, running down the left side of the page. In the lower right corner, by itself, is guacamole. It's the one landmark every customer is sure to recognize, and it is literally marginalized. Mr. Olvera might as well train the servers to roll their eyes like April Ludgate if anyone orders it. The menu, in fact, isn't a lot of help when it comes to suggesting how to put together a meal. Servers will suggest sharing about three dishes for each person at the table. Follow this advice, and you will not go hungry; unlike many chefs, Mr. Olvera takes the trouble to plate food so that it divides easily. But you will pay for the experience. Cosme is an expensive restaurant, where dinner for two with dessert and wine can easily creep beyond $300. A few dishes leave you wondering momentarily if it's worth it, like the stodgy, compacted eggplant-lard tamal. And while there is an absolute classic on Jesús Peréa's dessert menu, the cracked meringue made with burned and pulverized corn husks and filled with corn mousse, the rest of them tend toward a blandly pleasant sweetness. There aren't many problems like that, though. More often you get something like the fried pork skin, as big and brown and open as a catcher's mitt, covered with sliced radishes and avocados. It doesn't sound like much, but it's sensational. So are the duck carnitas, slowly braised in the meat's own fat with orange and Coca-Cola (the Mexican one, no corn syrup). Or the lobster paired, boldly and unerringly, with fresh chorizo and refried black beans. Almost everything you taste at Cosme seems new without being forced or mannered. It isn't the kind of Mexican cooking that can be learned on a vacation. It has to be lived, and for that there are no shortcuts. 