 CHICAGO -- As people in the restaurant business here remember the chef Homaro Cantu , who took his own life this week, they describe a man who was always willing to take on one more thing. He had Moto , his Michelin-starred avant-garde restaurant in this city's meatpacking district, and a cafe, Berrista . He was putting together an innovative brewery, Crooked Fork, and finishing his second cookbook. He apparently said yes to every charity that came his way, and was the driving force (and board president) behind the Trotter Project , a nonprofit group that offers career guidance for young people with an interest in cooking. A self-taught inventor, Mr. Cantu, 38, was constantly devising gadgets and techniques, at least two of which were patented. He dreamed of cooking interplanetary snacks for the entrepreneur Elon Musk's space-travel venture. He proclaimed that he would banish world hunger with something called the miracle berry . "He created an environment where you weren't afraid," said Richie Farina, the executive chef at Moto , which experimented with edible paper menus and aromatic utensils. " ‘No' was never a word you heard here. His thing was always, ‘How do you do more?' " But the questions that lingered all week in Chicago, as Mr. Cantu's stunned friends and colleagues tried to imagine why he would hang himself in the warehouse space for the brewery, were these: Had he taken on too much? Had something pushed him to the breaking point? The three-ring circus that Mr. Cantu set in motion is not unusual in this age of the superstar chef, when the successful cook is expected to build empires and brands, to champion causes and to spawn visionary ideas. But the glowing news media coverage that follows can gloss over the bombardment of demands and crises that chefs have to negotiate as their enterprises expand. "Man, what a stressful occupation we have," said Paul Kahan, whose restaurant the Publican is a few blocks from Moto and who frequently crossed paths with Mr. Cantu in charity work. "In the public's eyes, you're not relevant unless you're opening new stuff and moving forward. The stress of that kind of creative pressure that he put on himself, and the stress of business, and the stress from the public to be relevant -- they just compound. Every restaurant is a collection of five million different details. If you let all those things compound, you'll go insane." For Mr. Cantu, the last few years added personal and professional losses. In the fall of 2013, his revered father figure, Charlie Trotter -- one of the first celebrity chefs -- died of a stroke . And in the spring of 2014, Mr. Cantu was forced to shut one of his restaurants, iNG. Recently, some key employees left Moto, and Mr. Farina indicated that he would step down this week as executive chef; new recruits would have to be trained to understand Moto's expectation-thwarting, science-minded cuisine. Last month, an embarrassing lawsuit was filed by an investor in Moto and iNG, Alexander Espalin, who asserted that Mr. Cantu should be removed because he had used revenue from Moto to shore up the failing iNG and subsidize his personal projects. Mr. Espalin did not respond to phone messages seeking comment. On the morning after Mr. Cantu's death, his widow, Katie McGowan, referred to the lawsuit as "garbage" in a post on Facebook. "It was just another case of someone trying to make a buck off of him or take credit for his ideas," she wrote. Ms. McGowan told The Chicago Tribune that her husband had no history of mental illness or depression, and had left no suicide note. On Thursday, the day before Mr. Cantu's funeral, current and former employees gathered in Moto's basement kitchen to cook a vast potluck feast for Ms. McGowan and the couple's two young daughters. Steps away from the glass-boxed Class IV laser that the chef used for gastronomic experiments, they spoke of Mr. Cantu as a generous, cheerful, perpetually idea-driven man who seemed to be unfazed by all the pressures of his work. "He was in a good mood, he was happy, we were talking about the future and all the good stuff that's going on," said Trevor Rose-Hamblin, Moto's former general manager and Mr. Cantu's chief partner in the brewery, who had recently traveled with his boss to Vancouver, British Columbia. In his childhood in the Pacific Northwest, Mr. Cantu and his family had often been homeless, and in his formative early professional years, he had endured the long hours and the relentless boot-camp atmosphere of Mr. Trotter's kitchen in Chicago. As a result, perhaps, he seemed inclined to hide any tension behind a tough-as-nails facade. "He had this persona around him of being Teflon," Mr. Farina said. "No matter what someone said, it didn't faze him. He almost seemed invincible." The brewery had emerged in classic Cantu style: impulsively. "I said, ‘I want a brewery,' " Mr. Rose-Hamblin said. "He said, ‘Let's do it.' It was as simple as that, no questions asked." (Plans for the project are now uncertain, but Moto is scheduled to reopen on Saturday night.) Over time, the empty brewery space, on Montrose Avenue, became Mr. Cantu's refuge, where he could slip on a white lab coat, hook up an array of blenders and experiment with a wild plan he had to turn paper into pellets that could heat buildings. "The brewery was definitely his happy place," Mr. Rose-Hamblin said. "He could go there, he could get away. He always wanted his own lab." Mr. Cantu's voracious appetite for scientific knowledge was well documented, and there are countless anecdotes from Chicago chefs like Giuseppe Tentori, Bill Kim, Iliana Regan, Art Smith and Michael Taus about the change-the-world ideas that poured forth from him in a torrent. His patent lawyer, Chuck Valauskas, said Mr. Cantu had so many ideas so often that the primary task at hand was "triage," the challenge of sifting through the surplus and figuring out which ideas (the "food replicator" vending machine? the see-through tabletop oven? the all-in-one knife, fork and spoon?) were likely to survive. "Everything that would come out of his mind was just a moonshot idea," said Derrek Hull, who worked alongside Mr. Cantu doing publicity for both the restaurants and, later, the Trotter Project . "There are very few people that you come into contact with that really are revolutionaries." Not everyone was dazzled. Brandon Baltzley, a Chicago chef and freewheeling memoirist who discussed numerous potential collaborations with Mr. Cantu, wondered whether Mr. Cantu's childlike "excitable" personality suggested a fracturing focus. "He had his hands in so many pots and not his whole body in any one," Mr. Baltzley said. "He was spread superthin." Mr. Baltzley said he admired Mr. Cantu's creativity but couldn't always tell whether his deluge of dreams had a grounding in reality. "There was a sense of almost detachment from the real world," he said. "My first impression of him was, this guy was in a fantasy place." Even after Mr. Cantu closed iNG (itself a reboot of Otom, an earlier restaurant that didn't make it), his churn of ideas didn't appear to slow down. "You start having these small failures," Mr. Baltzley said, "and then even with these small failures, you keep opening up new things, and I think that's when things got really weird." Mr. Cantu's plans could come across as contagiously brilliant and commercially unworkable at the same time. Take the miracle berry , from West Africa, which he incorporated into the menu offerings at Berrista so that the cafe did not have to use refined sugar. "His idea was this berry can save the world because it makes horrible things taste good," Mr. Baltzley said. A meal at Moto (more experimental than even the cooking of boundary-pushing modernists like Grant Achatz and Wylie Dufresne) could challenge one's very notion of what qualifies as food. It served Kentucky Fried ice cream that supposedly tasted just like the Colonel's secret recipe; a snack that looked like foam packing peanuts but tasted like buttered popcorn; and a sauce-smeared dish that was supposed to resemble roadkill. "He wanted people to back away from the real world and live in this fantasyland he was creating," Mr. Baltzley said. "How often do you want to eat that food?" From all accounts, Mr. Cantu appeared to be almost compulsively giving: his money, his time, his encouragement. Stories of his rampant generosity abound, as do stories of his explosive creativity. "There's a darkness that comes with those types of minds, and he definitely had that darkness," Mr. Baltzley said. That much is clear from the circumstances of Mr. Cantu's death, but it still doesn't make sense to the people he led and inspired over the years. Mr. Rose-Hamblin said the news this week ran counter to everything he knew about him. "If we keep our heads down, and we experiment, we can find a solution to big, big problems," Mr. Rose-Hamblin said. "That's what he taught me: No matter what happens, there's always a solution." 