 I came up with my nature-preserve theory of tasting menus while eating a cabbage sandwich at Semilla , a new restaurant in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, across the street from Jack's Cancellation Shoes and Rachel's Corset Discount Center ("specializing in hard to fit sizes"). Semilla had taken two cabbage leaves, then flattened and dried them until they were as crisp as a cracker. This was the bread. In between were a bundle of unusually delicious coleslaw and some grains of buckwheat groats. It wasn't the most securely buckled-down sandwich I've ever eaten; some of the buckwheat fell out on the horseshoe-shaped counter around which Semilla's 18 seats are arranged. But I liked the way the buckwheat that stayed in the sandwich cracked between my teeth like Grape-Nuts. The flavors woke up old memories of the Polish and Ukrainian restaurants that are mostly gone from the East Village. And it was undeniably cool to have cabbage-leaf "bread" arrive at my place without warning. Diners at Semilla don't see a list of the 10 or so courses for which they are being charged $75 until the next day, when an email arrives from the restaurant. The sandwich struck me as a dish that might not last long on an à la carte menu. How many New Yorkers would choose to spend their dinner money on pressed cabbage when they could have broiled oysters or beef ribs or kale salad? By cordoning it off within a meal that has to be taken as a package deal, Semilla had sheltered the cabbage sandwich from the roughshod forces of the marketplace, the way the government might protect nests built by the gentle piping plover by banning four-wheel drive vehicles from the beach. The market's relentless pressures to turn tables, to goose the check and so on are clear to anyone who goes out to eat in New York. It's less obvious how those pressures may influence menus until we stop to ask why so many are virtually identical, with the same salads and the same cuts of the same animals. If not for minor variations in sauces and side dishes, we'd all fall asleep after our first cocktail. Semilla's chef, José Ramírez-Ruiz, and its pastry chef, Pamela Yung, are using the nature-preserve possibilities of the tasting menu so their customers can taste dishes that weren't concocted to please the marketplace. This is a familiar concept in music, film and art. It has come to New York dining only recently as multicourse, limited-choice menus have spread from the empyrean realms of Per Se and Atera to more affordable, less formal precincts like Contra and Semilla. Understand, as you enter this nature preserve, that you will be browsing extensively upon stems, tubers, rhizomes, seeds and other plant parts. Semilla tends to save fish and meat for moments when extra depth or intensity are needed. For instance, a paste of salt cod that covered the bottom of a plate in a thin layer, like gesso on raw canvas, acted like a dip for charred cups of cipollini onion and circles of rutabaga. It's a dish that draws you in, as much for the rutabaga, which showed off its little-known talent for tasting like three or four vegetables at once, as for the salt cod, distilled to a potent cream so good I ran my fork around the plate twice to make sure I hadn't left any. At Semilla (Spanish for seed), the term for this style of cooking is "vegetable forward." This both warns vegetarians and vegans that they will need to ask in advance for substitutions, and reassures those for whom the term vegetarian cooking still evokes tie-dyed flashbacks of carrot-lentil loaf. Mr. Ramírez-Ruiz, the chief vegetable manipulator, owes almost nothing to that branch of the vegetarian family tree. It's easier to see the imprint of Per Se, the Chef's Table at Brooklyn Fare and Isa , all former employers, in the way he elegantly props one flavor against the next. He makes a frothy soup of beer and grilled celery root, then pours it over "noodles" shaved from a celery root; whipped Cheddar adds tang as it melts into the soup, and puffed quinoa gives it a breakfast-cereal snap, crackle and pop. Ms. Yung, another Isa veteran, who has been teaching sugar and flour new tricks since her days behind the counter at Room 4 Dessert , contributes two sweet courses at the meal's end. (An inspired one brought black-truffle ice cream together with an electrifyingly tart Seville orange sauce.) She is also responsible for the hot sourdough bread that shows up at about halftime and often incorporates whole grains, such as farro and einkorn, that she grinds in a countertop mill stored on a shelf above the kitchen pass. (Most of the kitchen is visible from the seats and the rest can be seen through one-way glass slots in the restroom wall. At least, I think it's one-way glass.) One night she had filled out the dough with cooked oatmeal, and the bread was pleasantly sticky under its thick crust. On all nights the bread arrives with a swirl of creamy butter and a trickle of buttermilk. There are aspects of Semilla over which reasonable people can disagree, but Ms. Yung's bread isn't one of them. I could argue, though, that the $75 price will keep out some of the young, creative-underclass types who may appreciate what the chefs are up to. I'd also say that Semilla's servers should stop assuming that everybody has been initiated into the cult of natural wines; a guest of mine found the two samples she was poured too eccentric, and decided to drink nothing -- a lost opportunity on each side of the bar. Inevitably, I wished a few dishes at Semilla had been swatted to the floor by the market's invisible hand. One was a plate that I've come to call "too much cabbage with too many soybeans." Another was an ice cream Ms. Yung made out of colza oil. Colza oil is a close cousin of canola oil; frozen, it tastes like cold lubricant. There is risk in this kind of cooking. There is reward, too, and the chance to find out how good a rutabaga spring roll can be when you dip it in bittersweet orange juice reduction. Whenever I glanced at the other people huddled around the ash countertop, I saw far more appreciative nods than puzzled grimaces. The crowd reminded me of the audiences, small but intense, who showed up to hear underground bands in the '80s and '90s, when that was one of the few ways to hear music that didn't get played on the radio. 