 Time to cheer for Aquavit and its power to defy the forces of gravity. Time drags down restaurants in New York. It turns hot spots into castoffs and grand dining rooms into whispery museums. Hakan Swahn opened Aquavit in 1987. Over the last 27 years, it made the reputation of one Marcus Samuelsson and transferred from a light-drenched atrium with a defining waterfall to a more prosaic space in a pink-granite tower in the East 50s. The move happened a decade ago, but Aquavit still seems to be struggling to find the right tone in its dining room, which still isn't as comfortable as it could be. Its kitchen is soaring, though. Emma Bengtsson, who took over as executive chef last spring, is cooking modern Scandinavian cuisine as delicious as any I've ever had in this restaurant. In three-course prix fixe menus as well as five- or eight-course tastings, she juxtaposes flavors and textures in ways that are both complex and finely tuned. Even more crucially, her ideas are fresh without aping fashionable Nordic tropes, which would have been the wrong way to bid for relevance. Ms. Bengtsson sprinkles enough sea buckthorn around to show she's perfectly aware of what's happening in Copenhagen, but she is in no apparent danger of disappearing inside a cloud of hay smoke. She is her own chef. Almost every dish is denoted by a pair of ingredients, but there is always more to the story. For "scallop and radish," slices of raw scallops are given extra depth by white soy and fish sauce, and shaved breakfast radishes are tucked around them. Unannounced, but pivotal, is a brightly flavored froth of ramps. This green fluff has been sprinkled with puffed buckwheat kernels, whose slightly earthy crunch completes the picture. Ms. Bengtsson builds contrasts of color and shape that underscore ones of flavor and texture. She pairs creamy white buttons of delicate asparagus panna cotta with crisp ribbons of raw asparagus. Against both forms of the vegetable she pits salty-sweet gravlax in ravioli-esque pink bundles, sheets of cured salmon draped over chopped mounds of it. When a fillet of grilled Spanish mackerel shows up, you can see its slashed black-and-silver skin through a glossy apricot-colored sheath of jellied gooseberry. The gel is also tart enough to offset the mackerel's rich oils, a clever way of adding acidity without a sauce. There's a hint of sweetness in the candied pistachios and in the lacy umbrellas of fennel flowers, and more tartness in the poached red gooseberries strung along the plate with cauliflower florets -- some raw, some pickled and lightly charred. When Sam Sifton wrote the last Times review of Aquavit , in 2010, Marcus Jernmark was the chef and Ms. Bengtsson was in charge of breads and desserts. (Mr. Jernmark is now cooking at Restaurant Frantzen in Stockholm.) It's tempting to see a pastry chef's training at work in Ms. Bengtsson's dynamic handling of color, her appreciation of things that go crunch, her use of fruit in savory dishes, and her sense of sugar as a seasoning, on full display in the caramelized walnuts and drops of birch syrup with curls of an aged Swedish cheese called havgus. But it's foolish to push that argument too hard. I don't blame her background in the sugary sciences for the one savory dish of hers I could not force myself to like, a pâté of calf's liver encased in unnervingly sweet cucumber jelly. It looked like an expensive paperweight and tasted, to me, like a Jell-O salad concocted by a deranged '60s housewife. But I suspect it wouldn't seem nearly as strange to somebody raised in Sweden, as Ms. Bengtsson was. No matter which menu you get, there are extra treats all along the way, from a traditional potato dumpling in smoked lingonberry broth to intensely flavorful rye crackers. I was so happy spreading soft brown butter on the seed-packed Danish rye that I probably wouldn't have minded had the meal stopped right there. The climax of the eight-course menu is a stunning imitation of nature that sets yolks of sea-buckthorn curd inside eggs made of goat cheese parfait; snowflakes of yogurt foam dust a bird's nest of honeyed tuile strands. Eating the dessert called "chocolate and texture" is like sneaking into a box of leftover chocolate cake and quietly spooning up all the crumbs and frosting before anyone notices. In short, Ms. Bengtsson's food is wonderful. I only wish there were a little less stiffness involved in eating it. Aquavit is, among other things, a showroom for the graceful curves of Scandinavian design, from Erik Bagger's elegant flatware to Arne Jacobsen's swooping egg chairs. But one night, as the meal rounded the corner into its third hour, my lower back began to understand that the spindly armchairs were not necessarily conceived with the rigors of 21st-century tasting menus in mind. My dining companion was perched in an uncomfortable yoga pose because her banquette cushions were too far from the table for her to sit back and relax. Lumbar support wouldn't be a major issue if Aquavit were not so eager to push the longer menus. The choices on the three-course prix fixe are limited, and servers like to say that the eight-course menu provides the fullest expression of the chef's creativity, or something like that. Whatever the exact words, they were always spoken as if the meaning of life were about to be revealed. At times the servers had the somber expressions and postures you'd see at a funeral -- on the pallbearers, if not the deceased. This becomes unnerving when they stand in a row at the back of the dining room, all dressed in black. Once I could have sworn I heard a captain snap his heels together as he stood at attention, like Colonel Klink . My preliminary diagnosis is Michelinitis, an excessive stiffness caused by a desire to get or keep Michelin stars. Aquavit has two now, and I worry that if it ever gets to three, the servers will have been replaced with wax figures. But life still breaks through often enough. Sarah Blau, the beverage director, is natural and confident, and she sifts through an abundance of fine choices on the wine list. And the lounge, one of the most civilized harbors in Midtown, has a relaxed tone that the dining room could stand more of. I'd almost suggest turning the bar into a tasting-menu counter if it weren't such a fine place to chase Swedish meatballs with one of the many so-called aquavits that are really house-infused vodkas. Both have been fixtures for years, holding steady in a restaurant that in many ways seems to be getting younger all the time. 