 Before telling you how impressed I am by the new Mu Ramen in Long Island City, Queens, I want to clear up my role in the demise of the first Mu Ramen. Last March, I wrote an article about New York's quickly diversifying ramen landscape. One place I discussed was Mu Ramen, which had found a temporary home operating after-hours inside a bagel shop. Almost as an afterthought, I made a list of the 10 ramen bowls I had enjoyed the most during my reporting, putting Mu's suave and creamy tonkotsu at the top. The article and the list appeared online on a Tuesday afternoon. On Wednesday morning, Mu Ramen canceled all future appearances, saying it had been deluged with requests for reservations. Immediately, I was blamed in some quarters for killing the pop-up. One person on Twitter, accusing me of stoking a demand that the place could not handle, went so far as to call me a "herb." If I knew how to make money, I wouldn't work for a newspaper. Still, I had a sense that this is not how capitalism works. Last week, Joshua Smookler, Mu Ramen's chef and its owner, told me "the real reason" he had decamped from the bagel shop. "I was scared of the government finding out what we were doing," he said, even though he believed it was legal, "and was afraid that would have an effect on our doing a brick-and-mortar." He had just signed a lease on the current site, and he and his wife, Heidy He, wanted to concentrate on getting it ready. Others can judge whether that makes me a card-carrying herb. For my part, I'm just happy to report that the new, bagel-free Mu Ramen is a great place to smooth over any hard feelings caused by its nine-month absence. Of all the restaurants in the city where you are expected to make loud slurping noises while you eat, Mu may be the most civilized. The 22 seats half-fill a space that could easily hold more, and if you have to wait for one of them (after an experiment with reservations, the place is now first come first served, except for the tasting menus that will begin later this month), the deep built-in benches by the front door are a pleasant change from, say, the steps in front of Totto Ramen in Hell's Kitchen. Six of the seats face a counter. The rest surround three slabs of reclaimed wood. These communal tables touch but don't quite line up, creating little pockets of semi-intimacy, along with a sense of roominess. Running along the ceiling are thin wood slats bent into waves. They look like noodles swimming out of the kitchen. Before you face down the ramen, the appetizers may call your name; they definitely called mine. One of the best things to eat at Mu comes not from the streets of Tokyo, where Mr. Smookler has never been, but from his apartment, where he and his wife steam mussels when friends come for dinner. At the restaurant, he cooks clams instead, spooning a hypnotically aromatic saffron aioli over them. Then the dish takes a leap that makes no sense until you try it: You pick up a clam and scoop up some Vietnamese nuoc cham with the shell. Why the flowery musk of saffron reacts so well to lime and fish sauce I cannot say. Every clam was a fresh surprise and a fresh mystery. He also makes a tender, airy corn pancake, squirts some foie-gras-fortified maple syrup over it, then covers it with smoked trout. It's wonderful, especially if you like the sneaky feeling of eating breakfast at night. The only Japanese thing about it, other than the flyingfish roe dotting the trout, is the name. Mr. Smookler calls it an "okonomiyaki" (quotation marks his). For a fuller immersion in Japanese flavors, try the chirashi variant called U&I, named for the uni and ikura that are mounded with spicy raw tuna over sushi rice. U&I is far from groundbreaking, which does not at all detract from its pleasure. But the two times I tried the fried chicken wings stuffed with foie gras and brioche, they did not stop traffic, which they are clearly meant to do. The crust and meat were superb, but the stuffing was dull, and the quince paste that might have brought it into relief was bunched up at one end of the wing. Mr. Smookler trained in the meticulous rigor of Per Se 's kitchen, and his gift, those wings notwithstanding, is his Keller-like drive to find a better way. This usually means a harder and more costly way. When his supply of pork for tonkotsu broth suddenly dried up last year, he went to the Midwest and persuaded nearly 40 farmers who raise Berkshire hogs to start a cooperative. Then he arranged for a small slaughterhouse to butcher the four cuts of pork he wanted and ship them to Long Island City, where he would cook 120 pounds of bones at a raging boil for most of a day. This is a long way to go for a bowl of soup. (Metaphorically speaking, it is also a long journey for Mr. Smookler, who was born in South Korea and raised in New York as an Orthodox Jew.) If $15 seems a fair price for those ingredients, the conviction only grows once you start eating. Like all of Mu Ramen's broths, the tonkotsu has a flavor both deep and long, with extraordinary balance and a rounded profile that has no jarring, gamy edges. Without being greasy, it's gorgeously full-bodied and almost chewy; as you wind the noodles into your mouth, the droplets that cling to them feel like heavy cream. The flavor is very good, but it's the texture that can rock you back on your three-legged stool. Mr. Smookler pulls a similar consistency out of boiled beef bones, veal bones and oxtails for the soup he calls Mu Ramen. He drew the inspiration for the stock from the Korean dish seolleongtang. For the toppings, he went to the other side of his upbringing. He corns beef brisket, brines cucumber ribbons and shaves raw cabbage into threads that cook when they hit the bowl. The half-sour pickles are juicy and refreshing, and at the same time they transport you to your favorite delicatessen. More meetings with more farmers produced the chicken skin, feet and giblets that go into the shoyu ramen that just strutted onto the menu. The broth is another full-bodied knockout, and the chicken flavor is pure and intense. The weightiest, richest possible broth is not necessarily the ramen ideal. Ramen Lab , on Kenmare Street in Manhattan, makes a more traditional shoyu with a chicken broth that is very pure but more restrained than Mr. Smooker's, so it blends with the soy more willingly. Mr. Smookler's ramen is so compelling in part because it's an exception. My praise for it should not be taken as a signal to other chefs to try to make soups as robustly silky as his. Speaking of praise, if I had it all to do over again, would I still tell the world how much I admire Mu Ramen? Do I feel the same way now? Absolutely. 