 You can't help hoping that Jeremiah Tower will rescue Tavern on the Green if you've ever seen a movie about an aging rogue coming out of retirement for one last heist, con, caper, battle, boxing match or, in this case, a 700-seat restaurant that combines certain qualities of each of those things. Mr. Tower was the chef who gave Chez Panisse its first taste of national fame and even its early identity, before it began acting like Our Lady of the Holy Heirloom Squash. This, though, was in the 1970s. Now he is in his 70s, and was living in the Yucatán with scuba gear and a few suitcases' worth of possessions when he heard that an oversize and heavily leveraged restaurant in Central Park had just lost its chef. He tracked down the owners and insisted that he was the man for the job. He started in November. By all accounts, Mr. Tower always had a gift for making dinner into a celebration. That is a useful talent at Tavern on the Green, where many people go for many different reasons but where everyone has some vague expectation that it ought to be fun. And maybe it will be, you think as you cut between fox-trotting couples on a makeshift dance floor in the bar, where a singer with platinum hair and an emerald-green dress is going all out on "All of Me." Another hopeful sign: Mr. Tower's menus are more lighthearted and eager to please than the ones the chef Katy Sparks wrote during her short stay. The story and scenery are so perfect that somebody really should make a movie out of it. By the time financing comes through, maybe Mr. Tower will have delivered the dramatic turnaround the plot requires. But right now, the fun stops when the food arrives. "New Orleans rock shrimp and crab meat soup with shrimp toasts" sounds like a party on the bayou, doesn't it? It was like a mix-up in a Chinese takeout order. The grayish-gold broth looked and tasted like won ton soup fortified with a few drops of iodine. The long shrimp toast laid over the surface became a soggy mush. A Lincoln Log stack of crisp young romaine hearts got the Caesar salad off to a fine, fresh start. But the dressing was the indistinct creamy kind enjoyed by people who don't like the taste of anchovy, or garlic, or lemon. The braised short rib was dry, the filet mignon was tough, and the pork shoulder, rolled round a mix of mozzarella, pesto and prosciutto, was nearly raw inside. Dessert brought a passion fruit crème brûlée that was almost everything you could ask. I say "almost" only because it did not happen to taste like passion fruit. The dining room staff, meanwhile, hasn't lost its ability to surprise with new forms of amateurism. While delivering one appetizer, a server tried a slightly too fancy pivot. The plate tilted. A stack of toast went sliding off the table. Watching this unravel, the server swore in a stage whisper. The word, describing a substance that was probably ankle-deep when Tavern on the Green was a fold for sheep, is not one that tends to appear in this newspaper. Still, it succinctly summed up my feelings as I realized, once again, that this movie was not going to end the way I had hoped. Tavern on the Green, Central Park near 67th Street and Central Park West; 212-877-8684; tavernonthegreen.com . 