 On Monday, I chopped a week's worth of food scraps. It took most of an hour in my kitchen to reduce carrot leaves, cauliflower stems, onion butts and scallion greens to small bits that I hoped would make an appetizing lunch for the molds, mini-bugs and earthworms in the backyard compost bin. The next night, I had a meal that made me wonder if my time would have been better spent tossing everything with a good vinaigrette and eating it myself. The setting was Dan Barber's Greenwich Village restaurant, normally known as Blue Hill. For three weeks in March, he has converted it into a pop-up called wastED where he and his cooks sell fish bones, bruised and misshapen vegetables, stale bread and other items not commonly thought of as food for $15 a plate. The pop-up presents a creative challenge to the kitchen crew (how can we make this stuff taste good?) and an intellectual challenge to the diner (why do we assume it won't?). It was a night of thoughtful, creative, entertaining and surprisingly tasty agitprop. Chefs with an eye on the bottom line try to avoid kitchen waste. In a memorable scene in Bill Buford's book "Heat," Mario Batali berates Babbo's cooks for throwing out vegetable scraps that could make perfectly good ravioli fillings while he roots around in a trash can like a bear cub at a campground. In their search for overlooked ingredients, Mr. Barber and his crew did more than that. They went out on a crosstown refuse hunt. From Baldor Specialty Foods, a restaurant supplier in the Bronx, came bruised outer leaves from heads of bok choy and peelings from fennel, kohlrabi and apples for the "Dumpster dive vegetable salad" that persuaded me to reconsider my compost habits. To be painstakingly accurate, most of the persuasion was done by a buttery vinaigrette of ground pistachios, a swipe of tarragon sauce and a heap of white froth made by draining the liquid from chickpea cans and whisking it. Smashed pulp from Liquiteria's juice presses was dyed to a reasonably convincing beef color by beet juice, shaped into burgers and slapped on buns made from "repurposed" bread. From Raffetto's, the shop on Houston Street, they picked up remnant noodles that ran from the pasta rollers between batches of dough. These were boiled together, so they ranged from floppy to taut, and were dressed with a mildly fishy sauce made from monkfish tripe and smoked fish heads. The kitchen staff members took turns dropping off plates. One showed pictures of Baldor's bagged, peeled produce on an iPod and another pantomimed how he had scraped skate wings until his arms hurt. The night's guest chef, Philippe Bertineau from Alain Ducasse's bistro in Midtown, Benoit, appeared with head cheese, a pig foot croquette, stewed offal and tongue layered with foie gras, a reminder that French country cooking has a long tradition of turning scraps into treats. Halfway through dinner, Mr. Barber came to the table with a sheet of wax paper holding a fish skeleton as long as a baguette. "I grew up on this stuff," he said. He didn't mean the bones, which used to belong to a black cod, but the shiny white flesh sold in appetizing shops as sable. When sable is filleted, some meat sticks to the carcass. I unstuck it with a sauce spoon. Sable is always a treat, and this came with a bonus: the gooey, soft bits hugging the spine. Between mouthfuls, I crunched on some crisp carrot tops with fried fish skin. The skin, the bones, and the heads in the salad dressing came from Acme, the Brooklyn facility that gives New York some of its finest smoked fish. The restaurant was packed to the gills, one part of the fish that was left off the menu. A long row of high tables had been shoehorned into the center of the dining room. These were not just any tables, either. "The tables were grown -- yes, grown -- during the second half of February with compostable materials and mycelium," read a note on the back of the menu. The walls, meanwhile, were covered by a white fabric draped over crop rows to keep out frost and aphids. They were backlit, which gave the restaurant the feel of a wedding tent. "A wedding tent, that's nice," Mr. Barber's brother and partner in Blue Hill, David, said when he stopped by my table. "Most people say it looks like a meth lab." Breaking with protocol, I had asked Dan Barber for a reservation. This, of course, gave him the chance to set aside the choicest carrot tops and fish heads. Let the reader beware. I dropped the fake-name routine because seats have been scarce, my deadline was zooming in, and I am not trying to write a restaurant review. Still, the forewarned reader may wonder what I thought of the meal. I had one of the best times I've enjoyed in a restaurant in the last year. The food was great, full of the surprises that happen when cooks run into inspiration at full creative tilt. Almost every bite was delicious, with a few exceptions. "Repurposed" buns did not knock Martin's potato rolls from their place in my heart. I had trouble getting at the fried monkfish wings, which were shaped like a V, with most of the good stuff jammed down in the crevice. If I were going to enjoy them on a regular basis, I'd need to grow a snout. Also, the crackers served alongside an intense and rich bowl of broth made from desiccated dry-aged beef trimmings had almost no flavor. They were made from field corn, the commodity crop that goes into high-fructose corn syrup, cattle troughs and ethanol. It accounts for 99 percent of the nation's cornfields, and it is the only ingredient used at wastED that I'm convinced humans have no business eating. This was Mr. Barber's point, of course. The meal was gently and consistently seasoned with a protest against the grotesque way Americans waste food while millions of us go hungry. Lack of money and other resources forced members of 6.8 million households in the United States to eat less than they normally would at times during 2013, the latest year for which government statistics are available. At the same time, 133 billion pounds of the food that is available to consumers goes into the garbage annually. The facts and numbers could go on, but I feel ashamed already. Our food is produced and consumed in a bogglingly complex web. It can't easily be changed, certainly not by a three-week stunt in an expensive Manhattan restaurant. Perceptions do change, though, and quickly. Sliced white bread was a prestigious item in 1960. Many find it worthless today. For years our restaurant culture has placed supreme value in pristine, high-priced ingredients. What if everybody who could afford restaurants like Blue Hill learned instead to prize bruised vegetables because they had been transformed by a chef's skill and ingenuity? What might we do with the ingredients that any hack could cook? It's a provocative, appealingly subversive idea. For now, whenever one of my children complains about dinner, I'll silence him by saying that I once ate garbage, and liked it. 