 If you hooked a seismograph to Danny Meyer's Union Square Hospitality Group, the readout for most of the last two decades would be boringly predictable. Regular spikes would indicate the orderly arrival of restaurants, with just a few aberrant tremors here and there: the closure of Tabla and, very rarely, a change of chef. But since the summer of 2013, one quake after another has jolted the needle. The chef of the Dining Room and the Bar Room at the Modern stepped down. Then the same thing happened at the two Blue Smoke locations. Then North End Grill. One at a time, replacements were named. Recently came word that when Untitled moves downtown with the Whitney Museum of American Art, it will get a new chef, too. This cluster of seismic activity could be a coincidence. Or it could mean that pressure was building for a while; suddenly, the tectonic plates moved. What is clear is that a company with a healthy respect for loyalty and stability has taken advantage of the turnover. The new chefs are far from cautious caretakers; they've moved decisively to refresh menus that, in some cases, had begun to stagnate. Today I'll take on Blue Smoke and North End Grill; the Modern is a complicated case of two restaurants, each holding three stars from The New York Times, and is best saved for another time. Even fans of Blue Smoke would not have described it, before Jean-Paul Bourgeois took over the kitchen last March, as a beacon of innovation. From its birth in 2002 on East 27th Street through the opening of a Battery Park City location 10 years later, Blue Smoke tried to replicate every major American barbecue style. This guaranteed that its meat would be compared to Texas brisket, Carolina pulled pork and St. Louis ribs, and also guaranteed that the verdict would not favor Blue Smoke. Mr. Bourgeois has tried to extract himself from that trap by dropping the regional aspirations from the menu, which now offers "seven-pepper rubbed beef brisket" and so on. It's a start, but today Blue Smoke also faces competition from local pitmasters who produce great barbecue more consistently than it does. At their best, Blue Smoke's pulled pork can run a close second to the one at Mighty Quinn's Barbeque, and the brisket isn't far off the one at Hometown Bar-B-Que, which has gotten better and better. On off days, you may get a pulp of gray, lifeless, smokeless pork or a tough, stringy sparerib. But while Blue Smoke's barbecue lags, as ever, a few paces behind the front-runners, when it comes to contemporary Southern cooking in New York Mr. Bourgeois's menu is at the head of the pack. An appetizer called the Preservation Plate recently gave a survey of his range. He had used the smoker to turn a duck breast into very fine ham. His kitchen had put up pickles in the warm weather, string beans and red grapes tasting of cloves. He'd made a blackberry and root beer mustard to go with chicken liver pâté on toast, and tender, juicy pickled shrimp. This is a platter that summons thoughts of Frank Stitt or Hugh Acheson. Mr. Bourgeois is a native of Thibodaux, La., and some of his best dishes have been yanked, still wriggling, right out of the bayou. You know he means to do things the right way when you see the soft French bread that comes with oysters roasted in smoked garlic butter under crackling bread crumbs. His seafood boil is outstanding, every ingredient cooked the way it should be: the little potatoes, the crisp baby carrots, the fat, wonderful gulf shrimp and a head of boiled garlic that is delicious spread on Saltines. The comeback sauce goes with all of it, just as the chunky and aromatic tomato sauce goes with the very fresh pan-seared red snapper, gulf shrimp and crab meat to make a Cajun court bouillon, or coo-bee-yon. Over two visits at each location, it became clear that missteps can occur at either, although the worst service I've ever had at one of Mr. Meyer's restaurants took place in the Flatiron branch. My table repeatedly seemed to disappear for 20 minutes at a time. After one long absence, our server seemed to think we should have been finishing our desserts. "How are your ..." he began. "Oh, you still have your menus." Blue Smoke's desserts themselves seemed to have dropped behind a fog of oblivion until very recently. Two months ago, banana cream pie had lost its custard or pastry cream, so scraps of brown banana sat naked on a pie shell; the kitchen tried in vain to hide them under whipped cream. Late last year the pastry chef Emily Isaac rode in to the rescue, and while she is only beginning to introduce her own desserts, the recipes she inherited are already greatly improved. It's less clear that North End Grill needed a course correction. I gave the restaurant two stars in 2012, but even then I thought Floyd Cardoz's menu was hard to pin down: It had an egg section, but also lots of fish, and meat cooked on the wood grill seemed to be important, too. Eric Korsh, who started last spring, has a more unified approach, one tilting toward France. The level of cooking may not be different now, but Mr. Korsh hits more high notes, and hits them more often. His charcuterie is worth a visit all by itself, whether for the slippery, salty and gelatinous torchon of trotters or the thin slices of lightly pickled beef tongue with gribiche sauce, tangy and smooth. And he served a loup de mer the way I'd like to see it done at La Grenouille, with a terrific lobster sauce, a tangle of simple spinach and a huge glittering knob of caviar. I loved the way Mr. Korsh had seared and deeply scored the skin side of a raw Spanish mackerel, leaving intact the rest of the slab; to lighten the oily fish he had brought together pink grapefruit, hot chiles, cucumber and radishes. I admired how precisely each piece of seafood in his bouillabaisse was cooked, although I thought the broth tasted a little too much like clams. And he seems to get the most out of the wood grill. Smoke and char bring a primeval thrill to a splayed-open, nearly rare squab; now that I think about it again, my pulse is racing. And the Berkshire pork, said to serve two but enough to subdue at least four, is a piece of meat for the ages; it could do for the pork chop what Peter Luger did for the porterhouse. Desserts, now by Tracy Obolsky, still weave sophisticated threads into classics, like chocolate cake with crunchy malt or the tribute, in ice cream, to the Almond Joy. Try it, even if you think the original can't be improved. Change is good. 