 We all know restaurants where the menu changes daily. Last week at Superiority Burger , a vegetarian medium-fast-food outfit in the East Village, it changed in the middle of my meal. I was eating a tofu wrap and a salad of tender red-veined chard with pickled onions and juice-heavy blackberries at one of the six seats. These have swing-down desktops that remind me of college lecture halls and the old Prime Burger that used to sit across 51st Street from St. Patrick's Cathedral. You can occupy an individual burger desk in a popular restaurant for only so long before the urge to let somebody else sit down becomes overpowering. So when I got back in line to place a second order at the counter, I asked for takeout. The chard salad, served like most of the vegetables in a paper boat, was no more. Taped to the spot on the white-tiled wall where its name had been written on a white card in black marker was something new: juicy green heirloom tomatoes with chopped corn. I wondered if one of the cooks had just tried out a new dish on Brooks Headley , the chef and owner, and he'd said, at 7:30 in the evening, "Let's do it." That was not far off, it turned out. "We've come up with a lot of our specials during little lulls in service," Mr. Headley, who was the pastry chef at Del Posto until he opened Superiority Burger in June, told Lucky Peach recently. "Everybody runs down to the basement and picks up a project." New ideas fly through the kitchen so quickly, you can almost hear them buzz by. This is what elevates Superiority Burger above what it appears to be at first glance, a Shake Shack for vegetarians. And it's why going back regularly, as I've been doing, is an adventure. The avid experimentations of Mr. Headley and his cooks remind me of what was going on in the first year at Momofuku Noodle Bar , when David Chang and Joaquin Baca were on the edge of giving up and came back by cooking as if it were their last chance. Nothing at Superiority Burger contains meat, and most dishes can be made without animal products on request. Some of them you can be sure of finding every time, including the veggie burger that was famous from pop-ups before the restaurant opened. Others arrive out of nowhere and disappear a day or a week later. When it is among the specials taped to the wall, a meatless analogue of the Philadelphia cheesesteak interests me keenly. Shaved steak had been traded in for strips of yuba, the immortal Cheez Whiz for a smooth, subtly flavorful species of cashew cheese. The yuba mostly worked as texture; the flavor, which was strong and lasting, burst out of a spicy swirl of soft, deeply browned onions and green peppers. That sandwich did not mimic the flavor of a cheesesteak but conjured up enough of the sensations touched off by a cheesesteak to be an honest variation, not a fake. It was both heartfelt homage and its own, craveable thing. It wasn't on the wall last time; I look forward to our reunion one day. The same goes for the ice-cold smashed cucumbers that seemed to have collided, in one of those fortuitous you-got-chocolate-in-my-peanut-butter accidents, with what tasted like spicy rice pudding. (Personal and confidential to the roasted fingerlings and eggplant last seen wearing capers and pine nuts in a radiant lemon vinaigrette: Please come back. I won't ask where you've been if you don't ask me about the chard salad.) When it comes to Mr. Headley's gelati and sorbets, I try to adopt a Buddha-like state of nonattachment. These appear in a different two-scoop duet each night, one sorbet of ripe fruit straight from the market sharing a small paper cup with a dairy-based gelato. Last time, it was peach sorbet under gelato made with toasted hamburger buns; there were roasted peaches between them and a powder of the toasted buns, soaked in milk and dried, dusted over the top. When my Zen intentions weaken and I find myself wanting it again, I meditate on the impermanence of life as represented by a seductively lush nectarine sorbet I tasted a month ago. Wearing the paper cap of an old-time burger flipper or soda jerk, Mr. Headley takes care to serve his ice creams just cold enough to slide when they touch your tongue. But they won't be melting; if you have ordered it with dinner and sat down at one of the burger desks, he'll wait until you've finished before he picks up the scoop. I can't think of a better, more meticulously put-together $4 dessert in the city. To my taste, it outshines the sandwich for which the place is named. The Superiority Burger is indeed superior to many other veggie burgers, but truly loving it may require a built-in desire for veggie burgers that I lack. Filling out its small Martin's potato bun, layered with melted Muenster, iceberg lettuce, roasted plum tomatoes, brown honey mustard and pickles, the patty is seared to an energetic crackle and has a satisfyingly tender bulk. The buildup is almost too convincing, because the patty itself, which tastes of mashed beans, nuts and grains, breaks the illusion. For a ground-beef fan, the Superiority Burger takes you almost all the way, then stops. Among the sandwiches on the permanent roster, I prefer the Sloppy Dave. This is, of course, a meatless sloppy Joe, a sesame-seed roll filled with tofu in a marvelously spicy tomato sauce, with fried onions on top. I should say "usually filled with tofu"; the sandwich was almost all sauce on a first encounter, but it had more substance on subsequent tries. The menu's nicest surprise is the Superiority Wrap, a whole-wheat tortilla encasing tofu and brown rice. A similar item is a staple of earnest vegetarian restaurants, where it typically tastes like a paper-towel tube packed with pulverized drywall moistened with Morrissey's tears. The Superiority Wrap is a much more rewarding proposition. The rice has an excellent nutty taste. Shredded cabbage has a refreshing effect. A streak of bright tahini whirred with roasted sweet and hot peppers cuts through the tofu like a searchlight. And I loved the playful sweetness provided by a vein of candied sunflower seeds. The aesthetics of Superiority Burger are half-White Castle , half-punk. The menu board and signs borrow the stencils and ransom-note lettering from rock's safety-pin-and-spit era. Music swerves from Wire and the Clash to proto-punks like the yé-yé singer Karina. The prices, which peak at $9 for the wrap, are as democratic as it gets. Mr. Headley, a hard-core-band drummer, leads his restaurant with the collaborative spirit of a musical style that gave up peacock guitar solos for blitzkrieg-bopping ensemble playing. He'll tell anybody who asks that the cucumber salad isn't his, but the work of a sous-chef, Julia Goldberg, and his menu is loaded with shout-outs to other chefs and restaurants. The chard salad had "Zuni pickled onions," and raspberry sorbet came with "CF cream cheese gelato." "Does CF stand for cruelty free?" a customer asked. "No, Claudia Fleming." Another name you may hear, if you go more than once, is your own. The woman at the counter surprised me one night by remembering not just my fake name but the real one of the last person I had brought. This was more than standard critic-spotting. She showed me a stack of yellow Post-it notes with the names of repeat customers. "I'm trying to learn them all," she said. 