 A normal sandwich was what I had in mind one day in January. Normal is not what Meat Hook Sandwich does, though, so I ended up eating something that I would call the greatest cheeseburger I've ever tasted if not for the inconvenient fact that it wasn't a cheeseburger. What I ate was a chopped cheese sandwich, also known -- in the very small patch of the United States where it is known at all -- as chop cheese. This sandwich rarely strays from its natural habitat, the bodegas of Harlem and the Bronx. Filled with griddled ground beef in a cloak of melted American cheese, it is a distant relative of the Philadelphia cheesesteak and of the tavern sandwich, an Iowa standby that also goes by the irresistible name "loose meat." In Williamsburg, Brooklyn, Meat Hook Sandwich stirs in some pickle relish and piles the meat-cheese-relish amalgam onto a sesame-seed semolina roll. The relish makes every bite spicy and sweet, while the cheese makes the meat, already potent and rich, extra hot and slick. The architecture of the chopped cheese avoids a common if generally overlooked flaw of many cheeseburgers: the tendency of the cheese to drift upward from the patty and incorporate itself into the upper bun. Discovering this rearranged cheeseburger at the sandwich shop should not have been a shock. The place opened last year as a satellite of the Meat Hook , a butcher store a few blocks away whose bacon-cheeseburger sausage has made numerous and rewarding (for me) trips from the display case to my grill. Behind the counter, brawny women and men are always breaking down entire hogs and sides of beef from livestock raised on virtuous nearby farms. The economics of whole-animal butchery demand ingenuity in selling off the less-popular cuts and scraps. House-made cold cuts were an obvious sideline. As mortadella, ham and pâté amassed, the omens began to gesture toward sandwiches. The Meat Hook's restaurant, on Lorimer Street, does not look expensively decorated; the neon sign spelling "sandwich" in big white block capitals was a hand-me-down from another sandwich business. This hangs on one of two brick walls painted white. Fourteen backless metal stools surround exactly three tables. Sandwiches are ordered at a counter and delivered to the table in red plastic baskets. This is the extent of what you would call "service," except on Wednesday nights, when $25 buys a Meat Hook steak, an accompaniment (sometimes a salad) and as many bottles of cheap beer as you can drink without calling attention to yourself. The beers, Miller High Life or Pacifico, are carried to the dining room by a butcher moonlighting as a cook doubling as a waiter. The sandwich concern was founded by three pillars of the butcher shop: Brent Young, a Pittsburgh native with a lifelong hoagie fixation; Ben Turley, a rehabilitated restaurant cook; and Tom Mylan, who recently wriggled off the Meat Hook. They put a veteran Brooklyn chef named Gil Calderon in charge of the kitchen. Try to picture the lunch a hungry young butcher would dream about after spending the morning hunched over a large animal with a hacksaw, and you have a good idea what you are in for. There are no elegant tricorner panini, and nothing you can eat with one hand while holding a pinot grigio in the other. The cooks listen to their lizard brains. Simultaneously, a higher sandwich intelligence is at work, one that understands the crucial role of contrast and the life-giving spark of condiments. Or, as Mr. Turley and Mr. Calderon recently put it , "Don't think of your sandwich as a Beyoncé, think of it as a Destiny's Child." The kitchen knows that even great roast beef, which the Meat Hook's is, needs backup. It needs a tangy, salty slice of Cheddar and horseradish sauce. Shredded lettuce for its juicy crispness and then, for a savory crackle, papery wheels of fried red onions. Finally, the bootylicious ingredient: a scattering of potato that seems to have been scraped off the bottom of a pan of hash browns. One sandwich is based on a hunch that roasted pork would benefit greatly from a creamy tuna sauce, vitello tonnato-style. (It does, and if the sauce is applied too lightly, the sandwich can be a little dry.) Another is a fairly straight-up Italian hero that, for once, starts with first-rate cold cuts (mortadella, pepperoni, soppressata, all from the Meat Hook), then hits them with caponata, raw onions, some unusually good pickled peppers and lardo whipped with roasted garlic. Would the flavors of the meats come through more clearly if they were folded and tucked to give them room to breathe, rather than being stacked up like plywood? Or is that a question that only a nonbutcher would ask? The Vegetarian Option is essentially a semolina roll heaped with all the garnishes from the other sandwiches. No meat intrudes on the fun, although the kitchen bends the rules slightly and slides in a purpose-made beet-parsnip-carrot hummus, without which the sandwich would probably taste like a heap of garnishes. In an expert piece of expectations-setting, Meat Hook Sandwich advertises that the Vegetarian Option is "better than you'd expect." This was absolutely correct; the sandwich is impressively complex and still satisfying. If I have to choose between that and the hot chicken sandwich, though, vegetarianism is going to get a quick shove into moving traffic. An ode to the Nashville specialty known for producing copious tears of pain and ecstatic, speechless reveries, the hot chicken at Meat Hook Sandwich is made from hot-sauce-brined thigh meat with the deep flavor of a barnyard bird. Fried chicken sandwiches are usually made with pallid cutlets, so the intensity is startling. On top of that, there is sweet pickled celery and dried-chile schmaltz. This is chicken that can bring your whole day to a dead stop for a few minutes. Next to the order counter is a small blackboard that is always worth scanning. This is where specials like the chopped cheese appear. Around St. Patrick's Day, there was tender corned beef on seeded pumpernickel with a devastatingly rich coating of Welsh rarebit sauce. Recently, I've found a fine chipotle-fueled sloppy Joe. I wish I could tell you more about the steak and beer special, but when I tried to get it on the first day of this month, I was met instead by another rearranged cheeseburger. "April Fools," Mr. Young said. Two all-beef patties had been nacho-fied with Tex-Mex-style queso sauce, pickled jalapeños and crushed tortilla chips. If this is what butchers daydream about, I need a cleaver. 