 The age of French dining in New York that blossomed in the unpromising soil of the Corona ash dumps during the 1939 World's Fair, at the French Pavilion's restaurant, seemed to come to its close about 10 years ago as mastodons like Lutèce lumbered into the fossil record. Today, that seems less like the end of an epoch than a salutary cooling-off period. If you are having trouble getting a reservation at a new place this year, odds are high that the menu is speckled with accents grave, acute and circumflex. Dirty French is turning away customers at the door. Keith McNally sent frogs' legs marching to the rescue at Cherche Midi after his pizzeria there fizzled. And just north of Washington Square Park, at an address that had started to look like a certain restaurant-killer, the doors at a new Provençal spot called Claudette have been thrown open to reveal closely packed rattan chairs, none of them empty. Claudette's charms are many and begin with those doors, which replace the woebegone sidewalk enclosure that used to make it look as if nobody were home. Losing a few seats has made reservations harder to land, but the reward is that the doors have let in the atypically cool breezes all summer, along with a view of lower Fifth Avenue's wide, leisurely sidewalks, where somebody is always walking a bichon frisé. Inside, Claudette looks like an expensive summer rental that is being used as a French street-corner cafe. (Rattan connects the two motifs.) The beach rental aesthetic is supplied by the whitewashed tables, throw pillows and shelves lined with books that are arranged by color and separated by anonymous knickknacks. Contributing to the cafe look are the compact bar and the winning cast of aperitif cocktails, which all seem to be named after Roger Vadim's wives. Small, gentle and very appealing, the Brigitte and her cohorts cheerfully buck the trend toward potent, convoluted cocktails that don't know how to behave at the dinner table. Claudette's food follows the example of the aperitifs; it is light, approachable and unlikely to impair your ability to stand up at the end of the meal. If you are in the mood for an intelligent salad, Claudette has plenty: green beans and vinegared hearts of palm with heaps of fresh mint; a nest of freshly shredded zucchini, still crisp under its anchovy vinaigrette; a crunch-fest of raw radishes and snap peas tugged in an unexpected, intriguing direction by cumin. Even less expected was the cinnamon-laced raz al hanout spice blend dusted on the bistro-style fries. More brushes with North Africa lay ahead. Claudette makes an unleavened, layered flatbread, similar to traditional kesra, that is good when hot from the griddle, especially with a thick smear of pistou. (I couldn't see the point of another spread, the bland and expensive hummus with chopped truffles.) Gradually, it becomes clear that Claudette's chef, Wade Moises, and chef de cuisine, Koren Grieveson, have made a smart decision about Provence. Rather than treating it as if it were frozen in time and sealed off from the world -- Peter Mayle's "A Year in Provence" repeated forever -- they cast a few glances at the North African immigrants who live and cook there. Claudette's owners, Carlos Suarez and Mark Barak, were traveling in Provence when, like many English-speaking tourists, they fell under the sunny spell of Lourmarin. They had a charmed meal in that town at a restaurant founded by Claudette Sammut, a Frenchwoman who lived in Tunisia until the 1950s. Before it was over, they had asked her family if they could take her name back to Manhattan. They brought her bouillabaisse, too, an eccentric white version that has a puff-pastry hat and lemon juice but no tomatoes and an undetectable quantity of saffron. I was not as smitten by its tenaciously sour broth as they were. As a sauce for the monkfish, baby octopus and shellfish, it might get by, but as a soup, it lost its appeal after a few spoonfuls, and even sooner the time it was oversalted. A somewhat more successful souvenir from Lourmarin is the pieds paquets. Traditionally an all-day stew of sheep's trotters and tripe, it has been de-trottered for New Yorkers. Or, as a server with an oratorical flair put it, "we absented the feet for cleanliness of flavor." What we get instead are tripe-wrapped bundles of pork shoulder braised in white wine and tomatoes. Tender but polite, they are upstaged by the grilled bread, fantastic when dunked in the expanse of rust-colored sauce. As the absented feet suggest, Claudette's exploration of Provence can be undercut by its impulse to play it safe, to water down the pastis. Braised chicken thighs on a bed of nutty toasted bulgur arrive in a tagine, but they aren't cooked in one. When servers lift the glazed lid, the mint and other aromatics don't rush into your lungs the way they would in Tangier. The tiny dab of harissa doesn't go far, either. But the chicken is moist and well browned, the sauce gets sunny Mediterranean sweetness from oranges, and for complexity and originality, the dish leaves the other main courses in the shade. After making its opening moves so gracefully, Claudette grows oddly clumsy at the end. The most reliable dessert is the pistachio cake sandwiching a layer of citrus cream, smartly accompanied by candied orange peel. But a chocolate pot de crème with harissa was grainy, and a supposed bread pudding of chocolate-almond croissants looked and tasted exactly like a stack of stale pastries. Most of the time, though, the kitchen does what it sets out to do, even if it seems to be holding back. If Mr. Moises and Ms. Grieveson choose to dive a bit deeper into their vision of an African-tinged Provence, they could make the Gallic revival more interesting by cleaning the dusty windows of nostalgia through which New Yorkers like to view French cuisine. 