 It can't have been much fun for Jonathan Wu, the chef and an owner of Fung Tu , when Mission Chinese Food set up shop virtually around the corner in December. For his first year in business down in the headwaters of Orchard Street, just off East Broadway's warren of Fujianese places, Mr. Wu was the only Asian-American chef plundering Chinese traditions to weave a modern cuisine of his own imagining. Then Danny Bowien showed up a couple of blocks away with his kung pao pastrami and his Mylar rainbow wall and his "Twin Peaks" hallway, and fanboys and fangirls turned cartwheels on the sidewalks. Sure, in theory, the more the merrier, a rising tide lifts all boats, and so on, but Fung Tu was now in the shadow of the only hipster-Chinese restaurant that anybody wanted to talk about. As a friend who likes both places put it, there must be moments when Mr. Wu feels like Donovan in "Don't Look Back." Fung Tu didn't help its own cause by getting off to a tentative start in 2013. A dinner about a month in held as many timid nonstarters (sunchokes and mushrooms uneventfully inhabiting a steamed bun) as eye-opening treats (the egg roll of pork belly and juicy olives stuffed into a delicately fried garlic-chive crepe). Some early reviews fell between nonplused and underwhelmed. Ligaya Mishan, in a Hungry City column , was more taken with the food than other critics were, but she thought some flavors never quite showed up. The sound of heads being scratched must have carried to the kitchen, because Mr. Wu has adjusted. Over three meals since the late winter, I rarely had any doubt what he was getting at. Mr. Wu is a two-year veteran of Per Se , and his cooking has always relied on nuance. It still does, but now the accents have been filled in. When something is supposed to be salty or spicy, it is. When salt and spice aren't on the dance card, farmers' market vegetables and other main ingredients step up. Dishes that were great from the start, like the duck-stuffed Medjool dates that drink up smoke until they taste like date bacon, are at least as good now. Some may be better. And many of the new dishes are a reason for anybody who wrote off Fung Tu after the early days to put a return visit at the top of the calendar. See, for instance, the China-quiles, which was devised for brunch but stays in its pajamas until dinner. The template is ma po tofu, but the bean curd has been replaced by a smoky egg custard so smooth and silky it almost parts itself when your spoon gets close. Over that goes a Sichuan pork sauce that makes your mouth hum and burn, studded with transparently thin yucca chips for crunch. On the opening menu, a similar but more fainthearted pork sauce was ladled over a white pile of doughy, bland dumpling knots. The sauce on the China-quiles is so much more delicious that you couldn't call it an evolution; it's more like an intervention. The Sichuan two-step occurs again in a vinaigrette that dresses cured Spanish mackerel, carved into elegant slices that almost look like small anchovies. With tart little buttons of pickled hon shimeji mushrooms, Mr. Wu shows that he can pluck the hot, sour and salty notes as cleanly and precisely as Jean-Georges Vongerichten. He can also bend classic European spring flavors in his direction, tossing asparagus, morels and peas with ricotta gnocchi that receive a whiff of Gorgonzola from doufu ru, fermented tofu. Fried soft-shell clams appeared on the menu when spring got into gear. Their breading was a shade too thick, but Mr. Wu surrounded them with flavors that could make a clam rake taste good. First, he dusted them with dehydrated tomatoes, dried ginger and ground chiles, a blend that is a staple of Indian curries but becomes newly exciting in powdered form. Fermented black beans echoed the blend's sour-salty theme. Fried clams want tartar sauce; Fung Tu's is seasoned with star anise, charred ginger and other aromatics from a bowl of pho. The snack menu at Fung Tu does more than pad the check; it lets Mr. Wu come out and play. There are chips and dip, in the form of shrimp chips, shiny with hot oil, and a soft, rich, angry-red 'nduja. A sweet throat-burning mustard sauce was a little too intense for simple chicken wings, but the pairing of gently briny smoked mussels with scallion oil was so fresh and lively that I would like to take back what I said about smoked mussels at my parents' cocktail parties. That doesn't mean you're in the clear yet, smoked oysters. Many wines would butt heads with such delicate, oblique cooking. Sommeliers overprescribe Gewürtztraminer for Chinese food, while laypeople tend to self-medicate with Tsingtao. Jason Wagner, Fung Tu's drinks overlord and general manager, has better ideas. His very affordable list is packed with cryptic names like mondeuse and macabeu, which he will gladly decode. An enthusiastic partisan of sherry, he is worth listening to when he suggests a Gran Barquero amontillado that tastes like toasted hazelnuts dipped in caramel for the thin-cut fried pork chops with fermented mustard greens, a Chinatown classic here given a tangy, syrupy sherry-maple soy glaze. The service in the beginning was a little tightly wound for a restaurant that sat between Success Hosiery and Yat Sing Trading Inc. Now the staff has relaxed into the setting, where handsome wood booths and straight-backed banquettes are illuminated by bare chrome-dipped bulbs caged in polyhedral glass webs made by Mr. Wu's wife, the jewelry designer Jane D'Arensbourg . The bar up front provides an unhectic cove where you can decompress with cocktails that locate the middle ground between tradition and invention. Not usually the grandest of finales in Chinese restaurants, desserts, under Mr. Wu and his chef de cuisine, John Matthew Wells, are given a little more thought at Fung Tu, though they still seem like stepchildren to the rest of the menu. There are fried buns with fruit; a white chocolate mousse, not too sweet, with smooth, firm rhubarb slices; and peanut butter-chocolate truffles rolled in sesame seeds. When I first tasted one of those truffles, in 2013, it was chalk-dry and bitter, and went back to its plate after one small nibble. Like many things about Fung Tu, it turned out to be worth a second look. 