 The calendar said January when Santina opened early this year. The temperature outside hovered just above freezing. That said January, too. But almost nothing inside did. Santina's new glass-box building sits under the High Line like an unwisely located greenhouse, but oranges grew on the branches of a little tree, potted palms sat in the corners, heliconia and other tropical flowers gushed from glazed urns above the bar. Servers wore jelly-bean-colored polo shirts and slim-waisted chinos, like Dean Martin reaching for his 9-iron at Pebble Beach. People were sharing fritto misto, as crisp and fresh as any in town, and pulling apart multicolored bouquets of crunchy raw vegetables radiating from bowls of chipped ice. They were sipping cocktails through straws stuck into pineapple mugs, as if on a Waikiki honeymoon. Even when the front doors opened, the building is so painstakingly designed by the architect Renzo Piano (with the firm Beyer Blinder Belle) that its vestibule kept the cold winds of the meatpacking district from invading the dining room. Inside Santina, it was summer in January. It's summer there now, and unless the landlord turns off the heat, it will still be summer when Christmas gets here. Almost all the food at Santina pulses with the bright, refreshing flavors we crave in hot weather and, it turns out, in other months, too: jolts of chiles, sparks of citrus. Fresh herbs are tossed around frequently and enthusiastically. Chives, mint and basil turn a wonderfully gentle tomato-free minestrone garden-green; Thai basil leaves are flattened over the mint-and-parsley salsa verde applied to a juicy, sweet grilled porgy; tortellini sorrentina (delicate eggy pasta sheets stuffed with soft sheep's milk ricotta) are surrounded by raw marinara sauce and some olive oil mixed liberally with, what else, fresh herbs. Individually, none of Santina's tricks are really new, but the kitchen throws them all together in ways that are fun, energizing and mood-altering. Santina comes to us from Mario Carbone, Rich Torrisi and Jeff Zalaznick, busy restaurateurs who somehow find the time to endow each place they open with the thematic complexity of a Paul Thomas Anderson movie. The food, they have said, is coastal Italian, in part because the corner of Washington and Gansevoort Streets where the restaurant sits used to be shoreline . The three restaurateurs take their concepts further than anybody else in New York, though. They have elaborated the coastal-seafood notion to the point of seeing Santina as a seafood restaurant in an Italian beach town somewhere, maybe along the Italian Riviera during the 1950s or '60s. This gets them to the palm trees and the servers' resort-wear costumes. It also inspires a hilarious playlist, mixing sambas and cha-chas (Remember how the same Perez Prado tune pursued Marcello Mastroianni in "La Dolce Vita" wherever he went, even at the seaside village by Fiumicino?) and period Italian pop tunes from singers including Fred Buscaglione, the gangster impersonator who always seemed to get gunned down by a vengeful woman in the last verse. Mr. Carbone, who leads the kitchen with Dan Haar, the chef de cuisine, has said that the restaurant is named after his Sicilian grandmother. But Liguria plays a bigger role in the kitchen, providing pistou and the chickpea pancake, called a cecina, crisp on top with a soft white underbelly, ready to be spread with crushed, exuberantly seasoned avocados or an excellent salad of tiny shrimp or cold cubes of raw tuna humming with herbs and Calabrian chiles. The Carbone-Torrisi-Zalaznick team doesn't let its themes get in the way of a fun idea, though. The bartenders stock plenty of Italian aperitifs for their excellent run of cocktails, but they also let their grass skirts sway to the ukulele strains of tiki drinks in concoctions like the pineapple-and-banana-flavored Manganelli punch. While Italian seafood dominates the main courses, the grilled chicken comes in a sensational robust guajillo sauce that is as Ligurian as Rand Paul. These are not the kinds of two-ingredient recipes that you would throw together when it's too hot to cook. It's fairly complex stuff, and occasionally a heavy hand gets the better of the kitchen and the summer sun turns oppressive. Blue crab meat with spaghetti became mired in an oily glop of tomato sauce, and excess pork fat dragged down a bowl of warm rice salad tossed with guanciale and heaps of black pepper. Sea bass Agrigento, though cooked just right and buoyed by herbs and orange sections, sank under suffocating amounts of red peppers. Josh Ber's desserts, on the other hand, almost seem underthought. Filling three cannoli with cream in the Italian-flag colors -- green pistachio, white coconut and red maraschino cherry -- is a cute idea, but the pastry tubes are limp. So is the tart shell that's filled with a pond of dark, rich pudding to make a chocolate diplomatico; it's thin without being crisp. All the desserts are gluten-free, a worthwhile goal, but the substitutions entail more sacrifice than they probably should. The meringue puff topped with lime custard is very good, but it could use company. By the end of the meal, though, if the noise ricocheting off the glass walls hasn't gotten to you, you're likely to be in a frame of mind that isn't much bothered by limp pastry. Most of the food, particularly toward the top of the menu, is charming and playful in a way that's hard to fight. The rice-salad concept applied to shrimp zingara is a lively, spicy hit. Beyond seafood, Santina has a very winning way with vegetables. Even when it stoops to using seasonal produce, it gives them a warm-weather brightness. Butternut squash discs, lightly scorched to char and soften their edges, get a topping of cracked pink peppercorns, pumpkinseeds and honey agrodolce that almost turns them into candy. Even the kale and sunchoke salad, with pomegranate capsules strewn around like buckshot, tastes cheerful. Santina's eternal sunshine is a kind of rebuke to dogmatic seasonality. It feels like an answer from Mr. Carbone, Mr. Torrisi and Mr. Zalaznick to the wintry Scandinavian visions that are now in fashion; to the chefs whose bleak, gnarled plates of sunchokes look like scenery left over from one of Ingmar Bergman's gloomier excursions. If the people at Santina ever meet Death on the beach , they're ready to kick sand on his blanket and challenge him to a game of volleyball. 