 Only half of the tables inside Kao Soy were taken, but the delivery guys were coming and going through the door on Van Brunt Street every few minutes. The December wind off the harbor that was shaking the little brick buildings in Red Hook, Brooklyn, was keeping everybody at home, ordering pad see ew and massaman curry from the new neighborhood Thai place. This turned out to be lucky for me. Five minutes later, I was facing down a platter of shrimp with skinny dried chiles over torn lobes of sweet pomelo that had a flaky coating of toasted coconut and crushed peanuts. Soon after that came a big bowl of rice noodles, shrimp and round Asian eggplants in a mild green curry that seemed to get more and more appealing. This arrived with a separate plate of dried anchovies, boiled eggs with almost-solid yolks and a fresh red chile sauce that had definite intent to harm. Then the kao soy turned up, the dish I'd come to try. This is a pale-yellow coconut milk curry from Chiang Mai with submerged noodles and a chicken leg, and, above the surface, fried egg noodles going off in all directions with strands of green-papaya fritters. There was another condiment plate for the kao soy, of course. I was eating all of this as fast as I could, and as the overall deliciousness began to sink in I started eating even faster. It wasn't fast enough, though, and soon the plates covered every inch of available surface area and I needed to slide an empty table next to mine. In fact, I ran out of space every time I went to Kao Soy. Some blame must be given to the plates, which are vast white things with rims almost as wide as the sidewalks on Park Avenue . Some goes to Thailand, where a meal may start with half a dozen salads and sticky rice, and where even the condiments seem to have condiments. Some goes to the tables, which are not built for this kind of thing. Most, though, goes to Kao Soy's menu for inducing me to order too much (except that it was never too much) by offering Thai dishes I rarely see around town, including a few from northern Thailand. Those of us who prowl restaurants whose owners come from countries known for delicious food harbor an irrational belief that one day, if we play it right, we may get the Other Menu. This is the one the owners save for their family and friends. It's the one that lists all the foods they loved back home. It's filled with the dishes everybody says Americans won't like. Nobody I know has ever seen one of these documents. That hasn't stopped me from raising my eyebrows and dropping key foreign phrases in the hopes that a server will say: "Oh, you want the Other Menu? Just a moment, sir." At Kao Soy, the Other Menu is printed on the same green page that lists the dishes you know from your local Thai spot: the fried rice, the pad thai, the curry with choice of chicken, beef, pork or shrimp. Those items fill the shopping bags that go out the door every few minutes. They help keep the business floating. But the mission of Kao Soy is to sell New Yorkers on what Sirichai Sreparplarn, one of the restaurant's two chefs, calls "the real food from the north." Several New York neighborhoods have been wrapped in the fiery clutch of Thailand's northeastern region, Isan. Dishes from the north, though, have been found almost exclusively in one place, Pok Pok Ny , just outside Red Hook. This puts two northern Thai kitchens less than a mile apart in a borough that is home to only about 12 percent of the city's Thai population and virtually no other Thai restaurants worth knowing about. Kao Soy was opened last summer by Kanlaya Supachana, who has worked in several Thai restaurants around Brooklyn, answering phones and such. She and her co-chef, Mr. Sreparplarn, close friends for many years, had what he calls "the same passion for serving real flavor to New Yorkers," but they failed to persuade any existing Thai restaurants to share their vision. Finally a local contractor, Carlos Padillo, agreed to sign on as Ms. Supachana's business partner, and they took over a tiny space, filled it with a few tables, a tiny bar and an electric fireplace. The northern Thai dishes are scattered around the menu. Most obvious is the excellent kao soy, made in the style of Ms. Supachana's father back in Chiang Mai. Beneath the heading Snack & Salad is a dish called nam prik ong. This is a platter of steamed cauliflower, long beans, strips of fried pork rinds curled like Fritos and long surfboards of romaine lettuce, all meant as garnishes for a dip that's something like a spicy, slightly sweet pork ragù that went for a swim in the ocean. Or maybe the dip is the garnish; it was gone before I'd decided. A related dish, sai oua, is filed under Various. The dip here has been pounded from garlic, onions and fresh green chiles, hot ones. For dipping, you get steamed young mustard greens, cucumbers, freshly fried pork (not rinds but meat this time, and marinated in soy), along with a house-made pork sausage, the sai oua itself. Deeply perfumed with makrut lime leaves, coriander roots and lemongrass stalks, this sausage makes a more complete single-bite introduction to Thai flavors than any plate of pad thai. For the time being, we reach the end of the northern Thai menu with the banana blossom fritter and the kang hung le, a warmly spiced peanut curry cooked with pork belly and beef. A fried drumstick comes on the side, and you are meant to pull off some dark meat, pinch it with sticky rice and then scoop up some of the curry. I didn't understand it, but I loved it anyway. But we have not reached the end of the Other Menu, because there are other less-familiar dishes under the Snack & Salad or Various headings. Few are dull, and some are very good, like the shredded mango salad with cashews and two kinds of dried fish, no longer than a toothpick. Kao Soy isn't quite finished yet, Ms. Supachana will say. (When it is, I hope she gets her hands on more of the fresh herbs that add minty, bitter and even fishy notes to many of the salads at Pok Pok Ny; without them, some of Kao Soy's cold dishes seem to stop short.) There are big plans for the little bar, including a full stash of liquor. Two weeks ago, the liquor license arrived, and already Kao Soy has some interesting ideas about what to drink with Thai food, like Farnum Hill cider from New Hampshire, a Belgian-style saison ale from Allagash in Maine, or a red grenache from Donkey & Goat in California. They're going to need bigger tables. 