 "What's the matter?" my dinner companion asked one night at Chevalier , the luxurious new French restaurant in Midtown at the base of the Baccarat Hotel & Residences New York. "You look like you just saw a ghost." Maybe I had. A man wearing an elegantly knotted silk tie had just materialized at our side and wished us "bon appétit" with the ease of a native speaker. He was Charles Masson, who for years steered the stately old ship of La Grenouille until a family struggle sent him out on the streets. He landed at Chevalier as the "director." In the pre-opening press , Mr. Masson drew as much attention as the chef, Shea Gallante, formerly of Ciano and Cru. But just a month after the opening in early April, he announced that he was leaving. Now, four weeks after that, I was startled to see him in the flesh, still haunting the dining room, wishing us a healthy appetite as we faced our scallops and cavatelli. Today Mr. Masson is officially gone, but Chevalier is still searching for a guiding spirit. This place is confused about its identity. The designer Stephen Sills gave the dining room the soft glimmer of an abalone shell; it's pretty, but it also looks like a movie director's idea of a restaurant for rich people. Some of the customers get into the spirit: On two separate nights, somebody walked in with the help of a sterling silver-handled cane. As one of my guests said, it's a place where Bruce Wayne would have dinner. According to the website, though, Chevalier is a "brasserie de luxe." The first person who can successfully explain what it has in common with a brasserie wins a choucroute garnie for 12 at my house. Finding the right tone for a new restaurant is fiendishly complicated. As expense and ambitions increase, so do the complications, and Chevalier is both expensive and ambitious. Already, even as it tries to figure itself out, there is a lot to enjoy. Mr. Gallante's cooking is a little hard to pin down, but every meal reminded me just how compelling Ciano and Cru had been when he was in charge. Anybody whose taste buds are in working order could work up a good appetite for those cavatelli -- chewy but tender, yolk-enriched, and shiny in a sharp, springlike ramp pesto with smoked pecorino. The next course brought what has to be the greatest piece of roasted veal loin I've ever met, supremely flavorful and juicy. The long slabs of dry-aged duck breast I ate another night had all the intensity, the blood-rich tang and the richness that I'm starting to give up on getting from steak. Thick slices of pork loin ringed with a narrow band of well-rendered fat were a model of subtle, sensitive roasting; most chefs can't come up with pork this juicy without brining it until it's as salty as ham. Mr. Gallante is smart enough to leave these strong flavors alone, with just minor help from the rest of the plate. With the duck came a dab of Medjool date-red wine sauce, not too sweet, and the pork got by with just a breezy, summery helping of beans and garlic scapes. With seafood, the sauces do more of the work. A buttery emulsion with a trace of lemon verbena was neatly calibrated for black sea bass; cucumber chopped to a pulp and yuzu juice had a powerful and wonderful effect on raw Japanese yellowtail. The charcuterie plate is a marvel of offal craftsmanship: duck rillettes with a bullet of foie gras shot right through the center; rough-hewed and pistachio-flecked liverwurst; calf's tongue and chicken liver mousse layered in a terrine with a bronze jiggle of Madeira jelly on top; saucisson sec with a clear, bracing fermented sourness. Wow. But the same restaurant that achieved this near miracle also served foie gras mousse as cold and hard as butter right out of the refrigerator. I couldn't spread it; worse, I couldn't taste it. The veal that had been so transporting was, the next time I tried it, cooked to the unappetizing pinkish-gray color of canned tuna. Both nights, it came with a stodgy nub of sweetbread, reminiscent of pressed tofu. Fried soft-shell crab with burrata sounded weird on the menu and was weirder on the plate. It was like watching a bad date. I kept waiting for one of the ingredients to get an urgent text from a roommate who's locked out of the apartment. Although Chevalier often seems to be in out-of-town-tryout mode, it charges Broadway prices. This may get ironed out in September, when the menu will go à la carte. Right now, a three-course prix fixe dinner is $96; two courses are $74, which means you could save $22 by skipping David Carmichael's accomplished French desserts. The prix isn't entirely fixe, though. The dense chocolate soufflé, which to be fair is enough for two and is delivered with a dark-chocolate, crème-anglaise-filled egg that servers carefully crack and place on the soufflé, is $8.50 extra. Side dishes, like excellent gratin dauphinois, are $12 extra; the charcuterie plate is $26 extra. Mr. Gallante also promised lower, more consistent prices for the bar, where the situation now borders on the irrational. A manhattan was $18, but a gin and tonic was $20. One night, my companion pointed to my $22 Moscow Mule and asked the bartender for something "just like his, but different." One difference was its price, $24. Tweaks are planned for uniforms, décor and "service sensibility," which the publicist said "will definitely be lightened." I have no complaints about the service itself; the dining room staff came out of the gate with the fluid, watchful poise of people who have been in place for years. But its Old World tone would make more sense if the restaurant itself had a clearer point of view. Chevalier and its hotel were built by a real estate conglomerate, which sold them but still manages both through a subsidiary company. The conglomerate also owns the Baccarat crystal firm, and sprinkled its sparkly glass all over the building. At Chevalier, named after a Baccarat designer, the product placement is subtle but ever-present. There are charms in drinking water from heavy crystal tumblers, not least of all the workout you give your biceps, but it's hard to escape the feeling that customer pleasure is secondary to corporate interests. Chevalier seems to have been conceived as a French luxury restaurant, in other words, simply because Baccarat is a French luxury company. French luxury restaurants can be wonderful, but they have to be played with conviction. Mr. Masson could have supplied that, but now it will have to come from somewhere else. Of course, there is one luxury that would overcome all arguments. Food as consistently good as the charcuterie plate and that first veal loin would make Chevalier a destination. It just wouldn't be a brasserie. 