 Lately I've been keenly aware of needs I didn't realize I had, like dress shoes with ice cleats, an age-appropriate ski cap, self-shoveling sidewalks and a car that can hop sideways over snowbanks into empty parking spots. With the first bite of my first course at a new restaurant in Brooklyn called Dover , I knew I'd been missing something else, too. Broiled oysters. Specifically, these were Wellfleet oysters, keeping warm under a lightly toasted blanket of one of those eggy, creamy Gallic sauces. Vaguely old-fashioned, the oysters were just rich enough to feel like an extravagance without bringing on gloomy reflections about the brief duration of our time on earth. It turned out that my winter had been missing more than just broiled oysters. It was missing the style of cooking that they represent. The style is often French in spirit if not in all its particulars. It is both refined and generous, and it responds to the time of year not just in its choice of ingredients but in its instincts for feeding seasonal cravings. It is a style that Dover's chefs, Joseph Ogrodnek and Walker Stern, practice fluently and charmingly. If the rigorously tweezered austerity that is in vogue in the city's kitchens has begun to seem as comforting as an icicle, Dover's cooking will strike you as a sweet relief. Mr. Ogrodnek and Mr. Stern met in culinary school. Their orbits crossed again at Alain Ducasse's satellite in the Essex House , and then in 2011 when they built Battersby, a broom closet of a restaurant on Smith Street. They worked side by side in a space as roomy as the back seat of a Mini Cooper. (Think of them the next time you say you'd do more cooking if your kitchen were bigger.) Since Battersby opened, long waits have been routine , except for diners who are hungry at the stroke of 5:30 p.m. or who reserve for the much-praised tasting menus. At Dover, a few blocks away on the Carroll Gardens end of Court Street, anyone can make a reservation and everyone gets more breathing room. Fifty or so pale bentwood chairs match the bare wood tables set on bare wood floors. The walls are white or brick, and the paint on the paneled wainscoting is the color of modeling clay. It has the elegant severity of a 19th-century parsonage inhabited by a very neat, unmarried New England minister. There is also a bar in one corner, suggesting that the minister enjoys his cocktails. With some 16 choices under the headings Raw (what it sounds like), First (appetizers), Second (seafood main courses) and Third (meat), the menu is more expansive, too. The servers, bright-eyed and polite, may tell you that it is designed for four-course dining, or may suggest three courses instead. As a professional overeater, I will tell you that four followed by dessert is too much. Three is a fun route if you are hungry and curious, and two with dessert is what, in another era, used to pass for a full dinner. Dover's chefs do not cook for hummingbirds. Caviar pie, at $35, is the cocktail-party classic last seen in the ritzier suburbs, a layered dip of chopped egg and thickened cream under the midnight gleam of American paddlefish roe. Mounding some on folded blini or white toast will make at least two people smile as they scheme to get the last spoonful without looking greedy. For an earthier opening, there is a spicy lamb tartare in yogurt sauce brought to the table with a stack of newly grilled pita. Unannounced on the menu, the pita is an example of the care Dover gives to the small details that make a dish. It's one of several warm breads and savory pastries that appear without notice, like the gougères filled with fondue, and a skinny loaf of stecca with a smooth white-bean dip. One of the four slots on Dover's menu should be handed over to vegetables, because the chefs handle them very nicely. An appetizer of roasted cauliflower with toasted hazelnuts and raisins built contrasts (sweet and savory, crunchy and soft) so successfully that every bite was different. A $95 seven-course tasting menu brought sunchokes that had been caramelized until they looked like seared scallops. Even the best sunchokes can use a little help, and these got it from tahini and za'atar, along with candied pine nuts that were sweet and airily crunchy, like kids' breakfast cereal. A French grandmother would say Dover's cream-saturated root vegetable gratin was old hat. Then, if she were smart, she'd eat the whole thing. The gratin is served alongside a roasted chicken for two that has been likened to the NoMad's . The comparison is inevitable in that both birds are presented whole to the table, carved in the kitchen, and brought back in two forms (in Dover's case, the breasts with a simple jus and the legs shredded in a lukewarm salad with a hint of truffles). On my scorecard, the NoMad takes the gold medal in both the dark-meat and white-meat events. Dover's gratin is a winner, though. You never get the sense that Mr. Ogrodnek and Mr. Stern are grandstanding. They are cooking to please, whether they are carefully balancing the lemon juice and cream in an artichoke sauce for black sea bass or trying to inject luxury into the buckwheat served with a terrific duck breast that has a filet mignon tenderness. In the colorless trudge of January, carrots and orange sections arrayed around excellent seared scallops were a treat for tired eyes; the melding of carrots and orange in the sauce made a clear appeal to the taste buds, too. The energetic Vietnamese dressing of lime, peanuts, mint and chiles was a welcome break from the wintry mix, too, and from the richness of grilled lamb ribs. Did a long, bittersweet slab of Brooklyn blackout cake need a scoop of beet ice cream? Does anything? Maybe not. But the clean taste of verjuice sorbet was an elegant counterpoint to the buttery tang of a cheesecake mousse served in a jelly jar. That jar was Dover's one nod to Brooklyn's shaggy armies of picklers, and I'm not sure it was meant that way. Mr. Ogrodnek and Mr. Stern don't seem very interested in playing along with the clichés about the borough. It's one reason their restaurant stands out. When you're the last one on the block without a tattoo, you become the conspicuous one. 