 Chances are you haven't seen a picture of the roasted chicken at Betony . If you have, you've probably forgotten it, because it is just a gracefully tapering triangle of meat with golden skin. A purple-stemmed dandelion leaf lies on top of it, chanterelles and Hakurei turnips huddle at its side, a pool of jus gathers around it on a bone-white plate. In the race to become the most photographed cooked bird in the history of New York, it is no threat to the one at the NoMad. Once you taste Betony's, though, you aren't likely to forget it. None of the things that are supposed to taste like chicken do. Neither does most chicken, for that matter. This does, in a way that seems pure and undoctored. We taste flavors this clear when we're in the hands of a chef who obsesses over a dozen details of the kind that don't show up in a photograph. The chef at Betony is Bryce Shuman. Chances are you haven't seen much of his name yet, either, but you will. Mr. Shuman worked under Daniel Humm at Eleven Madison Park for almost six years, rising to executive sous-chef. For Betony, which opened on West 57th Street in Midtown this spring, he teamed up with a former captain from Eleven Madison Park, Eamon Rockey, now Betony's general manager. The wine director, Luke Wohlers, is another veteran. As you'd imagine, the two restaurants bear a family resemblance. The dining room staff, in crisp black and white, has the same military posture, which makes it that much more gratifying when they smile. Some of the E.M.P. ESP has made its way uptown, too. Servers often seemed to know what I needed before I did, although I'm not sure that my copy of The New Yorker required its own purse stool. Traces of Mr. Humm's style, minus the party tricks, show up in Mr. Shuman's cooking, especially in the way that the signs of hard work have been tucked out of sight. Betony's food has been fussed over, but it isn't fussy. The greatest appetizer, and this is a hard call, is a slice of seared foie gras under a crisp kale leaf. Plugged into the middle of the foie gras like a pink bullet is a circle of smoked pork hocks. A server pours a consommé made from the hocks over the top. That's it: liver, kale, ham broth, ham and some pickled black garlic. It is the most soulful foie gras I've ever tasted. Mr. Shuman makes a prettier, more conventional foie gras terrine and serves it with ripe berries, but I won't remember it as long as the hot foie gras dish, or even the chicken liver mousse. The mousse makes an unseductive entrance as a satiny ball that is a disquieting, back-of-the-refrigerator shade of green. Under the surface, which gets its color from parsley and its sheen from schmaltz, is a big scoop of whipped chicken liver that is almost as smooth and luxurious as the foie gras. It came with toast that I kept forgetting to use; I got all the crunch I needed by dragging the liver mousse through a trail of fried chicken skin and caraway-rye crumbs, and all the sweetness from a bright purée of green apples and chervil. Chicken liver spread, schmaltz, gribenes, seeded rye, apples, parsley: Is it Rosh Hashana already? Many of Mr. Shuman's dishes have familiar echoes like this. The pleasure they give you isn't exactly discovery. It's more like rediscovery. You already know that shellfish gets along with dill, but do you know that when you take impossibly tender and fresh lobster and cover it with a sauce that's been poured through tied bunches of fresh dill until the scent of the herb fills your lungs, you get something really wonderful? And, of course, you know that the browned hunks of fat on the edge of dry-aged beef can be a treat. But do you know what happens if you melt that fat and stew a short rib in it for two days, then sear the rib over white-hot charcoal? Mr. Shuman knows, and I'll bet that a year from now other chefs will know, too. Accessorized with grilled romaine and one perfectly fried sweetbread, it's a dish worth stealing. Betony's desserts, a collaboration between Mr. Shuman and Rebecca Isbell, the pastry sous-chef, don't land with the same force that the appetizers and main courses do. They're more scattered, although that complaint seems academic when you're eating a chocolate crémeux whose flavors build and subside like a red wine, or chasing a red plum with a mouthful of spongecake drenched in perilla-plum syrup. My misgivings about the rest of the menu are mild ones. Warm tomatillo juice with a poached black bass fillet needed a sharper edge. And a cucumber salad with a last-minute application of pulverized frozen buttermilk that sent puffs of fog into the air and made the table look like a Mötley Crüe video was fun for a minute, but the flavors weren't deep enough for the long haul. With almost every other dish, though, Mr. Shuman builds tastes that you want to keep going back to as long as you can. A dissident faction of eaters never bought the idea that all dishes larger than three or four bites become boring. When these people taste something they love, they don't feel boredom. They just want more. I suspect these people will descend on Betony with ravenous relief. Other diners may go once and never return because the elegance of the food and service are seriously out of joint with the space. The restaurant was originally built by its owner, Andrey Dellos, as Brasserie Pushkin, a Russian cafe with deliriously gaudy décor and food that seemed intended to remind wealthy expatriates why they had left the old country. When that concept failed, Mr. Dellos turned it into Betony, carting off the busty gilded caryatids and the murals of celestial nudes that seemed to be painted with pink cupcake frosting. But he left the ornate molded panels that almost look like real wood. And he left the cafe's basic layout, with a soaring bar so dramatic it manages to make both of the dining rooms, one upstairs and one down, feel like Siberia. The bar, with first-rate cocktails and clever if insubstantial snacks, hasn't completely caught on yet. If it does, it could make the diners in back feel even more cut off. It's a nontrivial problem, but it is treatable under an architect's care. But what would most help that dining room right now is a crowd. Betony deserves it. 