 IF YOU HAVE a wide-ranging appetite and more time than money, there's never been a better time to eat in New York. Every corner of the city is churning out affordable hits of deliciousness, and a long wait is often the only obstacle between wanting some and getting some. Even acclaimed chefs are in this game now, making creative cooking more accessible than ever. And if the meal turns out to be less exciting than you had hoped, you've lost only a few hours and a few dollars. The next day will bring some new taste, a Filipino tapas bar or an artisanal spaetzle truck. So while much of the nonconformist Mexican food at Mission Cantina is curiously unsatisfying, the disappointment does not sting the way it would if the prices were higher. The chef is Danny Bowien, who has a deep talent for short-order cooking that takes loopy twists and turns. His first New York restaurant, Mission Chinese Food , bent Sichuan cuisine into strange new shapes. Its kung pao pastrami, which sounds like a parody of modern food trends, is something I crave on a regular basis. (For now, I am out of luck. A family of mice believed it had squatter's rights on the address, and Mr. Bowien, following a Department of Health order, has closed the restaurant until he can evict the unwanted residents.) Starting with Mission Chinese, Mr. Bowien has been committed to keeping his restaurants within reach of the nonrich. This has become all the more admirable as awards and accolades have piled up around his limited-edition sneakers. Mission Cantina, which opened on the Lower East Side around Thanksgiving, charges less than $10 for almost everything on the menu and gives away sparkling water. For those prices, you don't grumble too loudly when a dish fizzles. And while some of the food can be remarkable and original, a surprising number of things do fizzle on this menu, a book of wet matches from a chef who can make sparks shoot from his fingertips. Like April Bloomfield , Dan Kluger and Alex Stupak , Mr. Bowien brings the habits of a modern American chef to Mexican food. When making tacos, he sees the tortilla not as an edible utensil but as an edible plate. Chile vinegar is available if you ask, but otherwise there is no do-it-yourself taco doctoring. Each taco is a composed dish, garnished and sauced in its own way, theoretically complete. The theory was sometimes true in practice. I loved the mushrooms hiding under what looked like a mutant pepperoni wheel but was really a round of shredded Jack cheese browned on the griddle. A white mush of stewed zucchini with fresh oregano was much more appealing than it will ever sound, and a warm gust of Mediterranean ingredients like pine nuts and raisins did wonderful things for small, sweet eggplant. After the skin-rippling heat of Mission Chinese, the calmer spicing at Mission Cantina is a small surprise, though not necessarily a liability. I didn't taste much cumin in cumin lamb, but the meat got by on its own assertive flavor. A hunk of braised pork cheek was soothing and warm under shredded purple cabbage and pickled habaneros. In some tacos, though, the main ingredients faltered. Fermenting the pineapple in tacos al pastor gave it a tingly acidity, but the pork belly beneath it was flabby and flavorless. The shrimp in a mixed marriage with fried beef tripe tasted heavily of iodine. Carnitas had been disassembled into little fragments of cracklings folded into excessively mild pork shoulder. The parts didn't go back together again, like a clock taken apart by a 5-year-old. Underwhelming fillings like these rarely drew much energy from salsas, which tended to fade into the background. A cucumber salad was dressed by a peanut salsa that seemed to be just ground peanuts. It didn't do much for the cucumbers, which had been left in their thick, bitter skins. Some of the best things on the menu are not in taco form. I would run back for the fried chicken wings, dusted with a spice mix that's like a dehydrated mole poblano, down to the sesame seeds and chocolate. Mexican cousins of the magnificent ones from Mission Chinese Food, the wings are one of the few dishes in which Mission Cantina pushes so hard against the original cuisine that it breaks through to the other side. Crunchy, fiery and messy, they are both recognizable and new. There's almost nothing recognizably Mexican about the bowl of supple, tender collards braised in beer above fluffy, creamy masa treated like grits. With an angry orange sluice of hot sauce on top, this masa is Southern, if it's anything, and it's so good I ordered a second bowl while I was still spooning up the first, shaking my head over the profound corn flavor. Consistency was beside the point at Mission Chinese Food, which could have been subtitled Fast, Cheap and Out of Control. None of the dishes there tasted the same way twice, but they always tasted good. That's not the case at Mission Cantina, where little variations from night to night can mean trouble. Deep-fried chicken livers on a tostada spread with puréed white beans were as creamy and sweet as whipped butter one night. On another they were hard, dry, unlovable things, and the pickled chipotles that had made the tostada so exciting the first time were applied stingily. Maybe the kitchen was running low on supplies, because the tacos were missing the white onions that usually lent them a crisp, juicy lift. Later in the meal, a rotisserie chicken, good if not earth moving, came with rice so greasy I put down my fork. The tortillas varied, too, but they have been getting better. A little dense at first, they have started to bloom on the griddle into a low-rise fluffiness. But from the start they have had that deep, fragrant corn flavor that I had admired in the bowl of collards. Mission Cantina makes all its masa from excellent dried field corn kernels, which is not especially complicated but takes time and effort. The work is absolutely worth it, opening up flavors and aromas that are as alluring as they are short-lived. Making masa from scratch is not, to put it mildly, the easiest way to run a Mexican restaurant. If you are running an inexpensive Mexican restaurant on the Lower East Side, it's almost lunatic. And it's awesome. It tastes like a promise from Mr. Bowien that one day everything on the menu will soar to its level. 