 First things first. Let's drink some wine. Going to Pearl & Ash without opening a bottle or two is like buying a chocolate bar and not unwrapping it. Since it opened in February, the restaurant has become the city's most exciting place to drink wine. Some nights the dining room is so packed with grape chasers, it's as if a Bat Signal in the shape of a corkscrew were shining over the Bowery. Michel Couvreux from Per Se and other sommeliers will be hunched on a backless bench, and Mike D will be weighing the merits of a Bordeaux that was fermented around the same time he was recording the first Beastie Boys album. Here, have a look at the list . It was compiled by that dude in the Black Flag T-shirt under an untucked, unsnapped cowboy shirt. His name is Patrick Cappiello , and he didn't dress that way when he was the wine director at Gilt, but he's a partner at Pearl & Ash, and I guess he gets to set his own dress code. Check out how many of his bottles have a little age on them. At other restaurants with wines like that, the prices are almost always deal-breakers. An amazingly vibrant 11-year old Mosel spätlese riesling from Karthäuserhof is $59. We could splash around in Burgundy's kiddie pool, with a 2007 premier cru Nuits-St.-Georges from Jacques-Frédéric Mugnier, whose wines induce spasms of mysticism in pinot noir fanatics. It's a relative steal at $130, but the waters get deeper as you move into older vintages, some of them drawn from the cellar of a serious collector Mr. Cappiello knows. If you know how much these bottles usually cost, you'll notice that Pearl & Ash has very humane markups. If you don't, you'll just notice that you are drinking at a higher level than your budget usually permits. Now let's eat. That riesling will get along wonderfully with the raw sea scallops under a dusky sprinkle of berbere, the complex Ethiopian spice blend that throbs with chiles and dried ginger. Those lightly charred curls of lily bulb around the plate have a floral sweetness that reminds me of pears; that pale green tangle under the scallops is a bit of tartly dressed fennel salad. It's a terrific appetizer. We should definitely get that thing called "hanger, egg, cocoa, melba," because it's a really good spin on steak tartare. Harissa turns the chopped beef rust-colored and resolutely spicy; cracked nibs of cocoa give it a little depth; those shards of Melba toast sticking out like plates on the back of a stegosaurus are convenient scoops; and that yellow creek of lightly cooked yolk smooths out everything. Try smearing some "chicken butter," maple-sweetened schmaltz with cow's milk butter, on this warm, tender, smoky whole-wheat bread. Kind of tastes like bacon, somehow, right? I know, I don't like paying for bread, either, but it's only $3. And we have to get these tender and supernaturally creamy fried sweetbreads with a purée of hearts of palm and tiny pickled beech mushrooms. The croquettes of duck confit sound good and look crunchy, but we'll skip them. They are about as crisp as frozen Tater Tots warmed up in a toaster oven, and the shredded duck inside is a little mushy. And I know the veal cheek with forbidden rice sounds great, but let's not. The rice comes in these oyster-size dehydrated clumps, which are so hard you can barely cut them. It's like eating moon rocks. We'll be much better off with the skirt steak, poached with hay in extreme slow motion for two days. It's wildly tender but not so soft you can't chew it, which brings out the herbal, woodsy flavor donated by the hay. Great, right? The man in white who's standing at the pass with his back to us is the chef, Richard Kuo. He was born in Taiwan and later moved to Australia. He got his early training there, which may be why he is so fluent with spices and Asian flavors. Here, try this octopus. Not everybody likes it, but I think it's fantastic. Looks burned, right? But it's just the togarashi spice blend that makes it so dark -- that and a blast in searing oil. But even though it's crunchy as a corn flake outside, it's still tender on the inside. That pale, sand-colored sauce is a kind of tahini made of sunflower seeds. I like it as a foil for the heat of the togarashi. In New York, Mr. Kuo studied the modernist tool kits at WD-50 and Corton. His cooking at Pearl & Ash isn't aggressively avant-garde, but if you pay attention, you catch glimmers of it in that slow-poached steak or the supremely smooth purée of cauliflower with pan-fried skate. (I'm not sure we should order the skate, though, unless he has dialed back the black pepper, chiles and paprika in the chermoula marinade; it walked all over the sweetness of the fish.) The last time I saw Mr. Kuo, he was sharing the kitchen with Fredrik Berselius at Frej , a pop-up in Williamsburg that was open three nights a week for about seven months. The cooking there was delicate and lovely, but its rather narrow band of Scandinavian flavors didn't suggest the exuberant range of tastes he has wheeled out at Pearl & Ash. Some people who've gone to Pearl & Ash seem confused about what kind of restaurant it is. The menu is heavy on small plates, but then the dishes under the meat and fish headings can also be prepared in main-course sizes. You can cover the table with a carnival of little dishes, or start with an appetizer and proceed to an entree. Whatever. Let's just call it a very high-functioning wine bar that offers one of the best values in the city, and move on. Speaking of moving on, there are a couple of ways we can go with dessert. There's the composed plate with some dense lemon poundcake scattered around rings of very pure-tasting, half-frozen coffee parfait that look like miniature doughnuts. Then there's a Fernet-Branca ice cream sandwich, a dish that's as polarizing as Fernet-Branca itself. The ice cream plays down the bitterness of the liqueur and brings out its herbal and minty flavors, but you might be one of the people who thinks that the smiley face drawn on the sandwich's paper wrapper is an ironic joke. Either way, let's call over Mr. Cappiello to ask about one of the three Madeiras he pours by the glass. Or, if you're feeling kind of YOLO about that $150 in your pocket, we can get a half bottle of Sauternes, like the Château Suduiraut, stunningly fresh for a wine from 1975. Right. Let's drink some wine. 