 You can't get mad at a macaron, but with all due respect I'd suggest that there are other French ideas about eating that would benefit New York more than balloon-weight sandwich cookies in sidewalk-chalk colors. We could, for instance, use a few wine bars of the type that began sprouting around Paris about a decade ago. Like traditional bars à vins, they have closely considered wine lists whose length and prices are geared for the curious drinker, but they championed winemaking's noninterventionist avant-garde before that was the thing to do. They also flicked the dust off the traditional menu of ready-to-go standbys like hams, cheeses, terrines and open-face sandwiches. Sure, there is excellent charcuterie, but there is some cooking, too, and it betrays care and originality. For the chefs of small restaurants like Septime and Frenchie that are full nearly every night, the wine bar next door has become the preferred way to expand. Racines , which the chef Pierre Jancou opened in 2007 under the glass roof of a 19th-century shopping arcade on the Boulevard Montmartre, was an early example of this breed and one of the most militant. It poured only wines made without sulfur, which even most purists admit can keep good bottles from going bad. Mr. Jancou was a believer, and he could be intolerant of those who didn't share the faith. If you thought one of his wines smelled like a running shoe filled with Gorgonzola, fine. You could go elsewhere and drink Bordeaux with the rest of the heathens. If not for the name, you would never guess that Racines NY, which appeared in TriBeCa this spring, is any relation. It's three times the size of the 20-seat original. The service is solicitous. The sommelier, Arnaud Tronche, genuinely appears to care whether people like what they're drinking. Sulfur, in minimal doses, is tolerated. This being New York, prices at the low end of the long, mostly French list aren't as low. And although wine will be the main event for many people, Racines NY is not a wine bar. It's a restaurant -- or "neo-bistro," in the words of the owners: Mr. Tronche; David Lillie, a partner in Chambers Street Wines, down the street; and David Lanher, who bought the first Racines from Mr. Jancou in 2009. In other words, the menu is meant for dining, not snacking. Nor for sharing, either, although my attempt to keep my fork out of my wife's plateful of whole, warm Oregon morels on a pool of half-liquid burrata failed miserably. For the most part, the chef Frédéric Duca's appetizers are opening moves, and very elegant ones. Mr. Duca served a length of barely seared wild salmon, the raw flesh inside the intense orange-red of a persimmon, with a scoop of cucumber sorbet and a schmear of warm cauliflower cream. These are two of the mildest vegetables in existence, so combining them would not seem like a formula for excitement, but it was like watching summer and winter meet for the first time. Raw veal with warm mayonnaise probably doesn't sound like a bell-ringer, either. But with pine nuts and tarragon folded into cubes of meat, it made a delicious tartare, unorthodox but unmistakably French. Mr. Duca, who grew up near Marseille, had begun to win recognition as the chef of L'Instant d'Or, in Paris, when Mr. Lanher talked him into moving to Chambers Street. Transplanted chefs often need time to find the right suppliers. But almost every ingredient I tasted at Racines NY was fresh and swimming with flavor. If you haven't fully wallowed in berry season yet, go and get the full, dark-red strawberries layered over basil panna cotta. It's currently the star dessert, outclassing a tart of chocolate and salt caramel that comes across as a knockoff (though as knockoffs go, it's very well made). And his main courses are events: the hanger steak over a smoky eggplant purée with blistered shishito peppers and a rustle of cumin somewhere in the background; the red snapper with octopus and fantastic mussels fried in herbed bread crumbs, one of the nicest treatments I've seen anyone give a mussel in a long time; the lamb cooked two ways, most impressively as a braised shank with a deep, almost gamy intensity that fought it out with a teasingly bitter salsa verde made from arugula. All of these dishes are brought to a pitch of refinement that is somewhat at odds with the wine-bar spirit. True, Racines NY doesn't claim to be a wine bar. Neither does its Parisian ancestor. But New Yorkers keep talking about it as if it were one, and it's easy to see why. A big, open bar dominates the dining room, which doesn't have the sense of occasion you expect from a restaurant or bistro. In fact, it's pretty generic. The walls are white or brick; the light fixtures are black and simple; the small vineyard photographs are black-and-white on white matte inside skinny black frames. Bottles, an easy and cheap decorative motif, are inexplicably absent from the shelves behind the bar's barren white surface, which could be mistaken for the cosmetics counter at Barneys . Not every French restaurant in New York needs to look like Bofinger , but does this one really have to look quite so much like a spread from the Restoration Hardware catalog ? Especially if you are spending $35 for the morels or $38 for the lamb, prices that approach those of the entry-level wines, you might hope for a room that you could picture when you close your eyes the next day. Some New Yorkers will keep Racines NY out of their regular rotation because it doesn't look French enough. This would be, to put it kindly, dumb. Dinner and drinks at Racines NY come as close as anything in Manhattan to the flavors of Paris today. The last night I ate there, the wine directors for Piora and the Momofuku group were in the house, cherry-picking the list. It doesn't take an expert to get a great glass at Racines NY. Stuttering a few disjointed syllables to Mr. Tronche, I ended up drinking a rich, almost tropical Sancerre from Sebastien Riffault, poured from a magnum; a dessert wine from François Pinon, a Vouvray with acidity and sweetness so closely balanced I found it hard to believe; a Reagan-era verdelho, a mere toddler as Madeiras go, that is one of the best companions for a cheese course I've ever met. Mr. Tronche could probably even find a wine to get me excited about macarons. 