 The outside makes no grand statements. A glass wall stares out at a not-yet-trendy block of Orchard Street. It's blank except for the small menu posted by the door, offering five courses for the relatively modest sum of $55. Hanging on one inside wall, more art than ad, and almost invisible unless you are walking southbound very close to the window, is the restaurant's name in red neon script: Contra . At work in a compact kitchen at the far end of the earnest and narrow dining room are two chefs whose ambitions for Contra are anything but small. They want to create a style of cooking that New York can call its own. "This is an incredible food city, but sometimes you can see a lack of identity in the restaurants here, where people want to channel another place, another time," Jeremiah Stone, a former sous-chef of Rino in Paris who helped open Isa in New York, told Eater shortly before the restaurant opened in October. "They want to do modern Thai, Roman, creative French." His partner in the kitchen, Fabian von Hauske, who worked in the pastry kitchen of Jean Georges and, briefly, at Faviken in Sweden, pursued the idea. "I don't think there's that much of a style here," he said. "You go to San Francisco and there is definitely a style there when you go to places like Coi or Commis . I think there should be more of an identity here, something that's contemporary that you can't find anywhere else." In most other cities, hatchets would be out for a pair of 20-something chefs who rode into town promising to show everybody how it's done. But not New York. Here we just say, All right, kids, let's see what you've got. What Mr. Stone and Mr. von Hauske have is a personal, understated, modern approach to deeply seasonal cooking. Mr. von Hauske makes the desserts and the bread, which costs an extra $3 and is worth it for the supremely creamy butter alone. Mr. Stone does the rest, but their styles are compatible. I'm not enthusiastic about what strikes me as a Northern European phobia of spices, but I came to admire their restraint with salt and added fat. You can see this approach catching on among other young chefs, some of whose food gets lumped in with the New Nordic movement . A more accurate name for their quiet, naturalistic, drama-averse approach may be mumblecore cuisine. Contra, at the moment, pulls it off with an originality that is sometimes dazzling and always worth following. The monkfish that appeared one recent night was cooked with faultless timing, roasted slowly, with the kind of tender pink center you'd find inside a seared scallop. It shared its chunky earthenware plate with leaves of charred kale, a marmalade of caramelized onions and a fish-sauce foam, but if you are thinking Vietnamese-molecular fusion, forget it. The fish sauce was a complex and milky froth made of monkfish bones and smoked trout, and it was very, very good. This was truly expressive cooking, exploring shades of flavor more watercolor than acrylic. The dish is either changed or gone by now, no doubt, but the impression lasted. And I won't forget Contra's pairing of chicken breast with pickled daikon, toasted sesame seeds and blood sausage. The sausage had been transformed into a swipe of soft, tangy, beet-red paste, dotted with marjoram leaves and tart nubs of dried raspberries. It all came together in a way so unexpected and right that I had to shake my head. New dishes roll onto the tasting menu every few days, and old ones are subject to restless tinkering. (Old, at Contra, means anything that was invented before today.) The first time I ate monkfish there, a mash of raw walnuts and garlic in miso was trying out for the role that was later played, with more depth, by the onion jam. And I liked watching the evolution of a raw scallop dish outfitted with noodle-like ribbons of raw kohlrabi. As wide as seatbelts the first time, they had slimmed down and looked more like fettuccine the next. On the other hand, the dried raspberries had gone from the blood-sausage swoosh the second time I saw the monkfish. I missed them a little. You get the luck of the draw at restaurants that offer only tasting menus, but the format suits Contra's food unusually well. The flavors are subtle, and on first encounter it's a bit like walking out of the daylight and into a candlelit room: you need to adjust. Five courses is enough time to open your eyes (you may get more time than you need on nights when the pace drags). Another advantage of the tasting menu becomes clear when you are served dessert, followed by a second dessert. As you may have guessed, Mr. von Hauske is judicious with sugar and quite comfortable with vegetables. I liked a beets-and-yogurt number more than I did a creamed gianduja studded with tough sunchoke chips that put up more of a fight than I could face at the end of the night. But at least I knew everybody else would be crunching along with me, and I'd already smiled my way through a less-antagonistic dessert, a kind of rebuilt apple crisp, with an oat crumble and whipped oat-infused custard around a cider-like apple granita. This dessert was pure fun and charm, like Mr. von Hauske's partnering of tangerine granita with a smooth popcorn-infused mousse and smashed bits of caramel popcorn. Linda Milagros Violago, who stocked the cellars at Mugaritz in Spain and Geranium in Denmark, has put together a list of bottles from the kind of small winemakers who think of themselves as farmers and avoid modern tricks. The results aren't always what you'd predict; a French cider, she said, had a note of blue cheese, and it did. The list almost forces you to try something unfamiliar, which feels just right for this restaurant. I hope Mr. Stone and Mr. von Hauske achieve all their goals except the one about creating a shared New York style. The crazy riot of voices chattering in hundreds of accents is the whole point of this crazy, riotous city they have adopted. We don't need other chefs imitating Contra's style. We've got the original now. 