 THE HARDEST-WORKING WOMAN in the food business one recent night was the host of Charlie Bird, in SoHo. Armed with nothing but good cheer and a smile that could stop a war, she had the unenviable job of preventing an uprising in a waiting area by the door that might comfortably hold three people if they were very skinny and could survive for minutes at a time without breathing. There were around 10 of us. Tables weren't emptying out as fast as new reservations were arriving, and hungry customers were piling up like rush-hour riders on the platform at Times Square when, "due to an earlier incident," the uptown No. 1 is nowhere in sight. The earlier incident causing the short delay at Charlie Bird was one that has occurred regularly since the restaurant opened in June: It gets packed early on and stays that way for hours. There was no room at the bar, but Robert Bohr, the wine director and an owner, had wedged himself into the tiny foyer to take drink orders, enthusiastically recommending a "tanky" and "gulpable" Piedmontese Barbera from Scarpetta. The host squeezed past him to look at the dining room. As she passed, there was a light pressure on my shoe. "Oh, I'm so sorry," she said. "I did not mean to step on your foot!" I had barely noticed, and once she unholstered that smile, I hardly cared. She was one of those servers who can make you feel better after a misstep, even one that lands on your toes, than you would have if nothing had gone wrong in the first place. The tone she set carried through all my meals at Charlie Bird, and it went a long way toward smoothing over any wrinkles. Quick, experienced and friendly, the servers add to the hip-hop-fueled energy of the dining room, which has the slightly too crowded and slightly too loud spirit that keeps people living in New York, even while they gripe about it. This was fortunate, because the cooking at Charlie Bird is surprisingly erratic: tremendously likable one moment, strangely off-key the next. Ryan Hardy, the chef and Mr. Bohr's partner, is working in an eager-to-please Italian mode that leans heavily on cheese, salt and crunch. The kitchen announces its intentions right away with focaccia that is so crisp and shiny with oil that it seems to have been deep-fried. Bits of bread roasted in chicken fat multiply the crunch of a half chicken that Mr. Hardy sears, pressing down on it until the skin crackles. Apart from a near-perfect risotto with tiny clams, the soulful mush of Italian cuisine is mostly banished; when a wonderful classic tripe stew turns up, simmered to vanishing softness in tomatoes, Mr. Hardy spoons it over crunchy slices of toast. There is a heroic veal chop at Charlie Bird, pounded and floured and browned at scorching heat, but not scorched, served with tender porcini slices and wedges of lemon. There are chopped razor clams that ride in the long canoes of their shells alongside a fiery mash of pickled peppers. A special of bay scallops with chopped pistachios was given little capes of lardo, which may not have been the most flattering look but made the scallops seductively good to eat. Jarringly, ingratiating dishes like these were mixed in with careless ones. Some main courses weren't hot enough, including, on one night, that star chicken. A few of the handmade pastas were standouts; others were washouts. Squid-ink chitarra with too few strands of crab was drowned in oil, and pappardelle with tender veal belly was lost in a weak, watery broth; even $50 worth of white truffles couldn't coax it to life. One evening, the cooks seemed to be applying salt with a snow blower. Salty croutons undid crisp leaves of escarole dressed with anchovies and lemon. Chanterelle pickles and a caper-raisin purée both brought extra salt to a wing of skate that already had more than its share. Dessert could have offered safe haven. But a warm chocolate cake with a molten, sunken center like the crater of a volcano and the olive oil ice cream next to it were topped, sadistically, with much more than a pinch of Maldon salt. A few weeks ago, the sodium had been purged from that chocolate volcano and it was the best dessert on the table. If the rest of the menu can shape up, Charlie Bird will be a very good restaurant. The other pieces are already in place. The narrow space, essentially a split-level bowling alley that runs along Avenue of the Americas, has been made over as a modern bistro, with squash-colored banquettes and Lyle Owerko's blown-up photographs of vintage boomboxes shot like Avedon portraits. The music is carefully aged hip-hop. Over the summer the decibel level could have been classed as an enhanced interrogation technique, although if it elicited any confessions nobody would have heard them. Acoustic retrofitting and a lower volume setting have helped. Mr. Bohr, who built the epic wine list at Cru , keeps a much shorter one at Charlie Bird. Working with one of his sommeliers, Grant Reynolds, he has assembled it with such care that I fell hard for everything I tasted. Ordinarily I'd be put off by seeing more bottles over $100 than under in such a casual place, but the markups are kind and, if your curiosity outstrips your budget, you can buy a half bottle of anything except sparkling wines for half the price. Even the cheapest wines were exciting, like the grignolino from the Piedmontese producer Cavallotto. At $45, it cost less than the retail price of the handblown glass it was served in, which had a crystal stem as thin as a chive. Like Pearl & Ash , another downtown restaurant that opened this year, Charlie Bird is on a mission to make the thoughtful wine service that you used to find only in hushed, special-occasion restaurants into an everyday event. That philosophy shapes the whole meal. Servers watch the tiny details, the way they do at far more formal restaurants, but they're loose and relaxed. It's a style ideally suited for the way we go to restaurants now, and it would lure me back, once the kitchen becomes more consistent, even if I have to wear steel-toed shoes. 