 HOUSTON -- Just about everybody who has been to Oxheart goes on about the flavors that its chef, Justin Yu, pulls from vegetables. I want to talk about the turkey. Most of the year, turkey is the iceberg lettuce of the animal kingdom -- banished from decent restaurants, it serves as anonymous sandwich filler. In February, Mr. Yu got his hands on some turkey that a farmer outside this city had raised from a heritage breed called broad-breasted bronze. The drumsticks and thighs he braised, pulled and dressed with sour cream and oregano. Together with crisp skin and cooked radishes, the meat was rolled up in a wrapper made of thinly shaved turnips. It looked a little like a Vietnamese summer roll. Next to it was a slab of white meat, poached in turkey broth and still glossy with it. In its simplicity, the breast was as compelling as the elaborately styled dark meat, and both were good enough to make me wonder why Americans don't see more of this bird we supposedly revere. Turkey may be an unconventional choice for a seven-course $79 tasting menu in a restaurant that the Houston Chronicle critic Alison Cook gave four stars after it opened last year. But Oxheart is one of the growing number of places around the country that are rearranging our notions of what fine dining means. It is also an example of the growing ambition of the Houston dining scene, and one of two places that lured me here to kick off this occasional series of reviews of restaurants outside New York City. Traditional signifiers of luxury are scarce at Oxheart. No valet materialized to park my car after I descended from Interstate 10 to a pocket of industrial buildings and frame houses north of downtown that the developers forgot to tear down. We were a few minutes early, and Oxheart has no space for a lounge, so we were sent to the front porch. We stood next to trash bags full of mesquite and a covered compost bin. Three or four servers, each friendlier than the last, came out to take our drink orders and check on us while we watched people passing by who may have been bound for the tattoo parlor, a recording studio or a bar where the door is always closed (knock twice to get in). As this urban-wildlife setting suggests, ambitious restaurants are less concerned with comforting the comfortable than they used to be. What the comfortable want, what even those of us who merely aspire to be a little less uncomfortable want, is an experience that feels authentic. In this new hierarchy of values, imported linens and china don't matter. What matters is finding a neighborhood carpenter who can build tables with hideaway drawers where diners at Oxheart will find the silverware for each course. What matters is that Mr. Yu was drinking at the right bar on the right night and met a hobbyist luggage maker who cut the leather aprons that make the dining-room staff look like metalsmiths. Through a similar chance, Mr. Yu also met an actual metalsmith , who forged the knives that Oxheart offers customers out of a wooden cigar box. Brand-name Champagnes and waiting-list cabernets? They aren't important. Beaujolais, vin jaune and sparkling wines from the Loire? They are, and Oxheart has them all . At the table, servers exhibit very little ceremony but lots of good cheer, and of course a flair for telling stories about what you're eating and drinking. Grand piano, washroom attendants, big-budget design? Right. Try a stack of vinyl LPs, a graffiti artist who spray-painted Oxheart's restrooms and a total opening cost of $98,000. (In keeping with the low-budget theme, there are two $49 four-course tasting menus a night as well as the $79 one.) The markers of luxury have even changed on the plate. Truffles, Dover sole, lamb that went to private school? Insignificant. Wildflowers, bizarrely named but abundant fish species, any and all members of the botanical family known as the brassicas? Incredibly significant. At Oxheart the night I visited, there were two brassica courses, starting with a salad of sliced raw chard and kale leaves with pickled chard stems and a dressing of mint and basil oil with the juice of, yes, more chard. In the center, looking like a poached egg white, was a spoonful of tart goat-milk whey. It was one of the most inventive and delicious salads I have had recently. And, if you consider painstaking attention to detail a sign of luxury, it was one of the most luxurious, too. Before opening Oxheart with his wife, Karen Man, who is the restaurant's baker, Mr. Yu spent a couple of months cooking at In De Wulf in Belgium and Geranium in Denmark. As with other chefs who have filled their lungs with the cool breezes blowing from contemporary Northern European kitchens, he creates plates that take their visual cues from the colors and shapes of nature. Each one features a rigorously edited corps of ingredients, many of them treated quite simply -- some are pickled, others left raw. "You don't see a lot of products on the plate, and the ones that you do see either have a lot of work put into them, or nothing at all," Mr. Yu said in a phone interview. "It's kind of all or nothing for us." Before his European tour, Mr. Yu worked for about a year and a half at Ubuntu in Napa, Calif., the late restaurant that was known as much for flavorful, resourceful vegetable cookery as for its location inside a yoga studio. Nearly everything served there came from an on-site garden, and Mr. Yu began to pay the kind of attention to vegetables that a mountain climber gives to rock ledges. He talks about once a week to a farmer at Utility Research Garden outside the city. "He understands my wants or needs: pick things young, or let them sit in the ground a little longer so they develop more sugars," Mr. Yu said. Utility Research Garden supplies the carrots for an Oxheart dish that makes use of several varieties of them at different stages of life. Some are shaved and sprinkled with two kinds of coriander leaf; others are roasted and set in a sauce made with coconut milk, Moroccan spices and even more carrots. From this one humble root, Mr. Yu had extracted fleet, herbaceous flavors; deep, meaty ones; and several others in between that I never knew carrots had in them. Some things about Oxheart, like the stack of vinyl, the 11 seats at a kitchen counter (there are 19 more at the tables) and the ceramic coffee cups with twisted handles, reminded me of other new restaurants that emphasize the personal and the handmade. The naturalistic look of Mr. Yu's dishes, too, is familiar. But every course of my meal showed an instinct for the delicious that is rare in any city. Encountering it, even in a restaurant as often praised as Oxheart, is always a discovery. If Oxheart is taking part in a worldwide conversation about cooking and fine dining, another widely admired new restaurant across town in the Montrose neighborhood is intent on finding the world in its own home. The mission of Underbelly, broadcast on the menu and the Web site , is to tell "the story of Houston food." For Underbelly's chef and owner, Chris Shepherd, it is a story of many cultures and cuisines meeting in a place that has become the most ethnically diverse metropolitan region in the United States. Not all of Mr. Shepherd's cooking coincides with how outsiders see Houston. He isn't fixated on enchiladas and steaks. But his tributes to the city's more recently arrived Asian populations were among the most memorable things I ate at Underbelly. He has an absolute winner in his Korean braised goat with dumplings. He must know it, too, because the dish has not gone off the menu since Underbelly opened a year ago with close to 200 seats, a zigzag wine wall and a glass case for aging meats. Mr. Shepherd tosses chewy rice cakes with butter and gojuchang, the Korean chile paste, which together make something like what you would get if you fermented Buffalo wing sauce and aged it in a barrel. I was wild about Underbelly's Vietnamese-style pork meatballs, too, in a brown gravy flecked with cilantro leaves. But I was less convinced by another nod to Southeast Asia, duck confit on top of bland rice noodles in a red curry that was neither spicy nor salty, sour nor sweet. And the restaurant's take on bibimbap seemed to need a little more garlic, salt and heat. Much more exciting was an ode to the Deep South, cornmeal-crusted chicken livers with lettuce and thinly sliced radishes in a terrific, spicy Thousand Island dressing. And I loved some of Underbelly's " non-fancy desserts ," like a tender half-moon fried strawberry pie and a wedge of vinegar pie, a relic of a recipe from an age when lemons weren't sold year-round. Most of all, I respected Underbelly's confidence in deciding which native traditions to champion. The boosterism comes to a halt with local wines, for instance: Matthew Pridgen, the general manager and "wine herder," has written a short diatribe on the wine list about how few local bottles are made with "100 percent Texas grapes that haven't been manipulated beyond recognition," and then presents "our extensive list of Texas wines": three of them, made by two producers. The rest of the bottles range all over the world. Cosmopolitan Oxheart and parochial Underbelly: I've simplified both places, of course. They share a great deal, including the fishmonger who shows up at the kitchen door with unheralded Gulf species like blue runner and bearded brotula. And they share Houston, the city that they are both helping to make into one of the country's most exciting places to eat. Oxheart, 1302 Nance Street; (832) 830-8592; oxhearthouston.com. Underbelly, 1100 Westheimer Road; (713) 528-9800; underbellyhouston.com. 