 You can put up with mediocre food in a restaurant that has other things going for it. When an exciting chef works in a terrible dining room, though, you feel the way you do when a friend hooks up with somebody you can't stand. You may visit the two of them once or twice to savor the full extent of the new partner's awfulness, but then you run for cover while you await the end. That's the reaction most diners had to Tenpenny when Chris Cipollone was the chef . Nearly everyone agreed that his food was terrific but that eating it in the charmless lobby of a Midtown hotel was like being buried alive with your last meal. When news of the breakup finally came, Mr. Cipollone's admirers began to hope they could start hanging out with him again. This summer, they got what they wanted, and Mr. Cipollone got the restaurant he deserved. Piora, next door to a West Village pet boutique where you can buy metallic-gold PVC dog collars, isn't large. The tables are leather-topped, as if you were about to sit down for a hand of whist, and they are hemmed in so snugly that when servers converged to set down three plates at once, they looked as if they were playing Twister. Right hand, trout! Left hand, suckling pig! But the place has been put together with intelligence and taste. You walk past a long bar attended by men in spotless white jackets, as if they had been flown in from Harry's Bar in Venice. Then you arrive in a square dining room with walls inscribed by long, sinuous horizontal lines. They look a bit like tentacles emanating from a sideways jellyfish, but they're strangely soothing, and they make the space look bigger. In another optical trick, the room seems to extend past the windows in the back to a tiered and illuminated garden that makes those of us with plants at home wonder why ours don't look this green in November. Mr. Cipollone has definitely traded up, and he's cooking as if he knows it. Imagine, if you can, four people fighting over carrots. It happened, and one of his appetizers was the cause. Some of the carrots were roasted in ham fat until they collapsed into their own sweetness; some had a humming spiciness locked inside them; under them was tangy white yogurt and on top, a pink drift of powder. "Ham snow," our server said. If there are Bac-Os in heaven, I had better get some religion, because this is what they'll taste like. Piora is owned by Mr. Cipollone and Simon Kim, a Korean-American who has management experience under Thomas Keller and Jean-Georges Vongerichten, and Korean flavors dart in and out of the menu. Mr. Cipollone makes fearless use of gochujang, the fermented hot-chile paste, blending it with shrimp stock and slathering it over crunchy and charred legs of grilled octopus. The gochujang, hot and deeply funky, is almost too much, but fresh basil leaves and candied pine nuts rein it in. But before you file Piora away under Asian fusion, be aware that the one thing you must eat is the pasta. Mr. Cipollone, an Italian-American, loves to play with pasta, but he is not chained to the traditions of Italy. He simmers black garlic bucatini in crab stock and tosses it with crab meat, adding maitake mushrooms for earthy depth. He underlines the candy-like flavor of roasted red kuri squash inside tortellini with a butternut squash juice that's a little less sweet, a two-note melody in the key of squash. Purple rigatoni -- there's red wine in the dough -- looked odd but tasted great, with peppery, fennel-seed-flecked duck sausage and lengths of the bitter green called spigarello. "I like the tortellini," the best cook at my table said, "but I want the recipe for the rigatoni." Personally, I want to know how to make the side dish of toasted hazelnuts with crisp bits of caramelized sunchoke. It's as crunchy as granola and nearly as sweet, and I'd eat it for breakfast. Life can't be all sunchoke granola and ham snow, though. Dullness creeps in. A purée of prunes stewed in tea wasn't dynamic enough to help the washed-out flavor of a duck confit appetizer fried in a puck. Even more spectral was the taste of a suckling pig main course, although a wonderful slaw of fried burdock root and radishes nearly made up for it. But dry-aged duck breast had a potent steakhouse intensity, and if its sauce of puréed jujubes, the Korean date, had a somewhat flat sweetness, duck jus enriched with black garlic gave it a savory kick. In a gentler mode, halibut was topped with sweet-sour ribbons of pickled butternut squash and given a last-minute swirl of toasty brown-butter fumet. Piora is about to hire its first pastry chef. With luck, it will land one who has better ideas than squirting lychee foam next to a gooey chocolate tart, or doubling down on the perfumey taste of Earl Grey cake with a scoop of Earl Grey sorbet. Until a new regime enters, I'll content myself with a glass of 12-year-old Guyana rum filtered one drop at a time through sliced bananas. It sounds like what you would put in the bottle of a baby with a drinking problem, but it is an excellent and serious nightcap. The men in the white jackets know their booze, and Piora's cocktails are tautly balanced and ungimmicky. This restaurant and chef are so pleased to have found each other that at times they fall into the slightly stiff good manners of somebody trying to impress future in-laws. The servers, in slate-colored striped aprons, are attentive, numerous and rather serious about this whole business of dinner. Ours can't be blamed for our fight over the carrots, having solemnly informed us when we sat down that Mr. Cipollone's food isn't meant to be eaten family-style but should be consumed in separate courses, one dish to each diner. You don't say. Now could someone please tell me what I'm supposed to do with these shiny pieces of metal next to my plate? This style might play better in a grand restaurant like Per Se or Jean Georges than it does in this cozy back room on Hudson Street. Once Piora moves beyond its self-imposed formality, it and Mr. Cipollone can start to settle in and get comfortable. This time, it looks like things may last. 