 The steak will be here in a minute. First, the show. Our server parks a trolley next to a window above Midtown in Quality Italian's sprawling main dining room. "I'm going to make your steak sauce," he announces as he drops oregano and parsley leaves into a mortar, cranks the pepper grinder and muscles down on it all with a pestle. "Tomato-garlic sauce," he says, adding three spoonfuls. "Now raisin molasses." He stirs with a clatter, making as much of a production of it as any mutton-chopped bartender ever made of a julep. "The owner likes us to do things tableside," he says. "It's a little kitschy, but it's fun." This would make a reasonably accurate motto for Quality Italian itself. The owners are Michael Stillman; his father, Alan; and Craig Koketsu, whose company, Fourth Wall Restaurants , is bravely battling the creeping solemnity and earnestness of parts of the New York restaurant scene. Fourth Wall has one restaurant where not just the menu but the décor and the name change with the seasons (Park Avenue Winter, Park Avenue Spring, etc.) and another that salutes the tiki gods with drinks in watermelons and coconuts ( the Hurricane Club ). To the Stillmans, "gimmicky" is a compliment and "too gimmicky" is a phrase with no meaning. Quality Italian, which opened this summer, is in some ways a clone of Fourth Wall's steakhouse a block away, Quality Meats, but the executive chef, Scott Tacinelli, has grafted some Italian-American food onto the menu for good measure. The result is, as my server promised, both kitschy and fun, although the food is so uneven you may as well order by spinning a roulette wheel, a gimmick the Stillmans don't seem to have tried yet. This is the restaurant that finally answers the question, "What if we set lobster fra diavolo on fire?" Enter a server pushing another trolley. He pours vodka infused with hot Calabrian chiles over a pan of sweet red-pepper sauce. Now the match. The flame climbs the stream of vodka and engulfs the bottle's neck. It threatens to engulf the server, too, but he's quick, and there is no damage: neither to his hand, nor to the lobster, which was not stunningly flavorful the night I had it, nor to the sauce, which was. At Quality Italian, you don't get zeppole after dinner. You get a Zeppole Workshop. The pastry chef, Cory Colton, fills a galvanized pail with fried balls of dough and sends them out with a sifter of powdered sugar, a jar of honey with a honey wand, a tiny pitcher of chocolate sauce and a scoop of ricotta ice cream, creamy and not too sweet. You do the rest. That's the kind of work I excel at, especially if it means that I get to skip the Zeppole Workshop's less exciting cousin, the Cannoli Cart. This is yet another trolley upon which a server stuffs limp wafer shells with a blend of mascarpone and ricotta that is as blandly sugary as canned frosting. After tasting these cannoli, I wanted to flag down another cart to take them away. Better yet would be a swap cart, where you could trade the cannoli for the lovely lemon meringue tart in its rectangle of crisp sugar-crust pastry. Even the vegetables perform tricks. Servers stir an egg yolk into bacon-studded kale carbonara, and they crack the glassy surface of caramelized sugar above corn baked in a sweet custard: corn brûlée. Both are preposterously rich, but good. It's hard to believe the same kitchen that makes these would send out sunchokes roasted to a flavorless, baby-food mush inside deflated skins, little pantyhose-colored bags of regret. Distinguishing between entertaining ideas and silly ones is not Quality Italian's strength. Serving gelati in a paper cup has a Dairy Queen charm, but stamping those cups with the red Safe Handling Instructions label found on meat packages is just bizarre, unless the Stillmans want to educate the public about the risks of E. coli in ice cream. And dressing the female servers in modified French maid outfits may not be the most forward-thinking policy for a restaurant catering to Midtown professionals of both sexes. (Maybe the Stillmans nabbed the idea from Le Relais de Venise , the steakhouse chain, which seems to get away with it by being French.) I wanted to believe there was more than kitsch to the chicken parmigiana that looked and acted like a 13-inch pizza. But its shroud of browned cheese was more like Tombstone than Totonno's ; its fried breading was limp, and after our server had sliced the pizza into wedges with a wheel, the chicken turned out to be spongy ground breast and thigh meat almost completely free of seasoning. Other diners report tasting herbs and salt in the patty, but even that, and a serving that easily feeds two with leftovers (in a pizza box, of course), wouldn't persuade me to pay $58. Luckily, a fair number of dishes don't do anything but sit there and taste good. Oysters baked under sea urchin butter and bread crumbs are a briny thrill. Nearly as good are the baked clams, with their doubly crunchy topping of bread crumbs and crisp angel-hair pasta. Both a filet mignon, tall and proudly alone on an empty white plate, and a sirloin, served on the bone, hit all the classic steakhouse marks, from the glossy, fleshy interior to the matter-of-fact sear. A medium-rare rib chop, though, was inexplicably lean, chewy and dry; almost all the flavor was in the crunchy trimmings left on the bone. Help was not going to come from the steak sauce, drowning in sweetness and clogged with oregano. It could have used some of the energy that a sensational sour-cherry mostarda with fried sage brought to a Berkshire pork chop. Pasta dishes have nothing like the finesse they get at Michael White's steakhouse, Costata , but the porterhouse agnolotti in brown butter and vincotto had the transfixing depth of dry-aged beef, and the sickle-shaped creste with shrimp in spicy tomato sauce were bright and appealing. Finesse may be beside the point at a place where servers proudly tell you that the Quality Burger on the lunch menu is "served with Quality cheese." The kitchen needs to work on the first half of the restaurant's name. But judging by the crowds and the number of times I heard "Happy Birthday to You," the Stillmans seem to have figured out that some people would still rather eat in a theater than a church. 