 After a long and grueling winter, nothing lifts the spirits in springtime quite like an old-fashioned fish fight. Limani opened in November around the corner from the Rockefeller Center skating rink. Its menu is Greek, and its strength is formidably expensive seafood, which up until the moment it is laid on the grill can be found spread out on a small mountain of ice at the edge of the open kitchen. The modern dining room subliminally evokes the Aegean and has space for nearly 200 people at tables draped with white cloths. It all sounds peaceful enough. But four blocks away is Estiatorio Milos , which has operated on West 55th Street since 1997. It serves Greek food with a strong emphasis on formidably expensive seafood, which is displayed on a bed of ice near the open kitchen. The décor is modern and suggests the Aegean, the tablecloths are white, and there are easily enough chairs for 150. You might write this off to an uncanny coincidence if you didn't know that this Milos is a branch of one in Montreal and that this Limani is a branch of one in Roslyn, N.Y., whose founding manager worked in the Milos company for 16 years. The first chef in Roslyn was the original chef at Milos in New York. The owners have kept up traditions in Manhattan. Their kitchen is in the hands of M. J. Alam, who used to be the executive chef at Milos. Release the spiny lobsters: We have a fish fight. By longstanding tradition, a fish fight needs a referee. So, to begin with the most crucial item: As a rule, the array and quality of seafood at both establishments can give a seafood lover a happy case of vertigo. American standards like red snapper, bigeye tuna and black sea bass can be had, but there are far cheaper places to eat the standards. You go to Limani or Milos for creatures that circulate in the Mediterranean and the eastern Atlantic and generally migrate to New York only when somebody buys them a plane ticket. Among other species, both restaurants recently had the firm-fleshed John Dory, with its false eye staring out from its flank; rascasse, or scorpion fish, mild tasting and a traditional component of bouillabaisse; lavraki, or branzino, long and silvery and delicately sweet; and barbouni, or red mullet, a small fish whose full flavor is out of proportion to its size. Even more luxurious are the shellfish: firm and exquisitely flavored langoustines; spiny lobsters the size of a leg of lamb, with an intense taste that suggests a wild-game cousin of langoustines; live scallops, presented on the half shell with the slightly chewy, frilly band of mantle; and the heart-stoppingly sweet and supple red shrimp called carabineiros. Both restaurants serve red shrimp with a glass of sherry for the heads, although Milos suggests dunking the heads before sucking out the fat, while Limani advocates pouring the wine into the head and knocking it back, fat and all, like a Jägermeister shot. In a perfect world, I would eat like this three times a week, with no regrets and no plaque in my arteries. In Midtown, which is still striving for perfection, a life like that would cost buckets of money. Limani is the cheaper restaurant, both in the menu prices and in the fish, which is sold by weight before cleaning. It charged me $85 a pound for those red shrimp, or about $17.50 each. Milos gave them to me for $95 a pound. Barbouni was $43 a pound at Limani and $61.50 at Milos. Limani is nobody's idea of a cheap night out, but the somewhat less fearsome seafood prices are a firm point in its favor. And it was only at Milos that I was served a fish that had stayed slightly too long on the flames, a whole fagri costing just over $80. It was also Milos that let scorched oil from the grill mar the lush taste of a $270 spiny lobster. On the rest of the menu, Limani's prices are merely expensive, while the ones at Milos read like a long series of typographical errors. The French fries are certainly worth $8, and by Manhattan standards $49 isn't out of line for three meaty, tender, very good double-cut lamb chops. But why $32 for a Greek salad, even if it had enough juicy, red, almost-summery tomatoes and creamy feta for four? And while the signature appetizer, a stack of fried zucchini and eggplant over a mound of tzatziki, was far lighter and more delicate than Limani's copycat version, paying $33 sucked the fun out of it. Prices seem to have doubled at least since 1997, when Ruth Reichl gave Milos two stars in its last New York Times review. Today, considering what happened to the fagri and spiny lobster, one star is more appropriate. But here things get complicated. Limani doesn't always duplicate its finesse at the grill throughout the kitchen. Gigante beans there were stewed in a tomato sauce that might have passed for canned soup. Desserts, except for a thick slab of yogurt with excellent honey or the fried dough balls rolled in cinnamon and honey syrup, called loukoumades, were not hard to pass up. At lunch, a tuna burger seemed determined to leave no impression at all, and a chicken kebab had me looking out the windows for the nearest halal cart. The afternoon was saved by an ideally cooked dorade royale. If money is not at the top of your pile of worries, or if you'll move it to the bottom of the pile for red shrimp and John Dory on the grill, then the choice between Limani and Milos may come down to style. Milos's décor is a one-of-a-kind blend of exposed structural columns in bare concrete and weathered Greek artifacts, including amphorae big enough to hide a pair of rodeo clowns. The split-level dining room is loud, lively and full of people who act like regulars. Service is practiced, and can be charming. A few years ago, when I was seated between a pillar and a low concrete wall, a server popped up on the other side of the wall and said with a winning smile, "You have my favorite table!" Limani, which in nearly every other respect swims in Milos's wake, darts off on its own in the interior-design department. The floor of the dining room is done in blinding white marble, and the leather seats are a softer white. In the center is an infinity pool that keeps changing from blue to violet, the colors glinting off the small metal fish on a mobile that hangs in a double helix from the ceiling overhead. Some people will look at it and see a Greek fishing town taken over by millionaires. I saw South Beach. By now, though, readers who give any thought to their dinner budgets have no doubt decided to run screaming from Midtown and head straight for Astoria, Queens. For starters, let me suggest Astoria Seafood, which is like Limani or Milos but with no luxuries, fewer kinds of fish and check totals that don't rival the round-trip fare to Athens. 