 If you hope dinner at the Clocktower will get you a backstage view of the ticking cogs at the top of the former Metropolitan Life Tower, forget it. The restaurant is on the second floor of the New York Edition hotel, which opened in the skyscraper at the foot of Madison Avenue in May. Marriott and Ian Schrager, who run the place, brought in the restaurateur Stephen Starr to operate the Clocktower. To get there, you can take the elevator from the lobby, or you can disappear up what looks like a big white cocoon into a tight spiral staircase. Upstairs, burning candles in glass lanterns flank the floor of the elevator bank. Somebody, maybe you, will notice this too late and kick one over. "Don't worry, it happens all the time," a host says, not all that reassuringly. She leads you past the billiards table upholstered in felt the color of grape jelly and into the bar, where you rescue a female friend who has been sent there to wait for the rest of your party. She has been there just long enough to stand uncomfortably while every man in the room checks her out. The Clocktower plays a familiar game, the private club that has accidentally let you in. There are three small, connected dining rooms. Yours has a dark green marble fireplace big enough to roast a goat. Above the wainscoting of book-matched burl and below the wedding-cake crown moldings, original fixtures ordered up by some long-dead insurance executive, hang framed photographs in black and white, one above another, gallery style. They show celebrities from the 1950s, '60s and '70s, dozens and dozens of them. When you ask about one, a server brings you an explanatory booklet printed on heavy paper stock. Your waiter wants to talk about the menu. Seafood is listed under Seafood and salads under Salads. You nod. Orders placed, you get a small round loaf of bread, cut in quarters, steaming. "I.P.A.-rye sourdough with buttermilk and butter." The crust shatters on impact; the crumb has a prickle of tartness. In five minutes, you want another loaf. When the seafood-under-Seafood arrives, you know the bread was a preview of what's in store. There's citrus-marinated shaved fennel, so bright that it tingles, over the chilled lobster salad served in its shell. A sweet king crab leg with cucumber-pickle curls and dashi jelly rides high on chipped ice spread out over a silver pedestal. Cubes of raw scallop and hamachi are spread over a chunky pesto that's surprisingly right. This chef can cook. Who is he, anyway? His name is Jason Atherton . You'll read later that he was raised in an English resort town on the North Sea, where his parents ran a small hotel. That he spent five years working for Gordon Ramsay. Like Mr. Ramsay, he now has restaurants in London and around the world. Unlike Mr. Ramsay, he is not a magnet for controversy, which may be why his landing in New York has been less bumpy than his former boss's. Also, there is very little egotism in Mr. Atherton's cooking. He seems to have the peculiar idea of cooking to make other people happy, not to reflect his own glory. You've heard that he serves contemporary English food at the Clocktower. It doesn't taste much like England to you. There are exceptions, like the suave and gentle Lancashire hot pot, a traditional mutton stew that Mr. Atherton makes with rabbit, to excellent effect. It's so good that you ignore the other, fancier half of the dish, a pastry-wrapped bullet of spongy rabbit loin and slightly overcooked foie gras. How to describe the rest? It's festive and generous, and it looks exciting. Classic sauces and techniques are used, but they don't feel like old hat. Mr. Atherton's cooking is not pretentious, but it has the celebratory elegance that traditional hotel dining rooms promise to deliver and rarely do. A beurre blanc, taking its gentle heat and berrylike flavor from pink peppercorns, is genuinely exciting over gleaming braised halibut; so is the carrot purée that's somewhere between a sauce and a vegetable. You're even happier with the roasted king salmon that gets along wonderfully with its sauce of chives and chopped oysters. Of course, there is Dover sole, and you appreciate the time-honored treatment of brown butter, lemon and capers. You admire the duck à l'orange, too, the chew of the breast pieces, the concentration of the confit and the way the sauce conveys the fragrance of oranges without the sweetness. These sauces are spooned or poured when the dish is served, a formal gesture that the Clocktower pulls off without stuffiness. Maybe the stage business ought to stop there, you think. While one server points out each variety of raw oyster, another stands off to one side holding a tray of condiments. He stares into space, no doubt wondering where on the small table he is supposed to put all this stuff. A terrific piece of smoked thigh that comes with chicken breast, nicely roasted with herb stuffing under the skin, is served in a drawer that slides out of a little box. Some of this hyperactivity may fall away as the restaurant matures. Perhaps somebody will also toss out half the bottles at the bar; a lot of the cocktails have two or three more ingredients than they need. You took a few sips of a cloying pineapple-rum concoction garnished with glow sticks and a temporary tattoo, then ran for the sanity of the wine list. When the stock market stops correcting itself, you may splurge on a $400 Bordeaux; this week calls for a bottle in the $40 to $60 range. Clocktower has scores of them. Now you want dessert. You want all the desserts, in fact, so it's a good thing you brought a crowd. The pastry chef, Sébastien Rouxel, has the same solid hold on classic technique and proven flavors that Mr. Atherton does. His pistachio soufflé, with a lump of chocolate-yogurt ice cream dropped through its roof at the last minute, is virtually perfect. You wish he would get the ice crystals out of the vanilla ice cream that comes with a tarte Tatin, but the sticky caramelized apples make you unreasonably happy, and while it's billed as a portion for two, it's easily enough for four. The table is still jammed, and here come some treats in a vintage McVitie's biscuit tin. You make room because everything in that tin is good, from the crumbly-tender shortbread to the toffee brittle coated with dark chocolate and chopped peanuts. The check comes. You do the math, not just the tip, but the more subtle calculation of whether this is a fair deal. The Dover sole was more than $50, but it always is. Other main courses were in the $20s, which is rare in this style of restaurant. And there were great little surprises all through the meal. You sign your name. You'll be back. 