 It is as colorful and otherworldly as a coral reef, this row of fried cauliflower knobs in purple, ivory and marigold yellow. Wrapping each floret is a pale-gold skin of batter. It's almost invisible, but you feel it as you bite, its soft snap reinforced by the full-on crunch of chopped almonds. Poached before it is fried, the cauliflower is nicely salted all the way down to its tender core, but it is still cauliflower, so it needs a little support. This is supplied by a lush green tomatillo, pistachio and fresh herb sauce that gets in a quick, peppery jab before it signs off. Where does this dish come from? In the proximate sense, it is from Andrew Carmellini's latest restaurant, Little Park , inside the Smyth hotel in TriBeCa. The ultimate inspiration, though -- where is that from? The batter is related to tempura, and I think I might have caught the rustle of Mexico in the sauce. Beyond that, it is hard to say. The fried cauliflower seems to be one of those dishes that happen when a chef's imagination is allowed to roam. Mr. Carmellini once dreamed of owning an Italian, a French and an American restaurant. In less than four years, starting with Locanda Verde in 2009, he and his partners built all three. Then, after the Dutch and Lafayette , he knocked out a fourth, a drop-in pasta place called Bar Primi that seemed to come together in less time than it takes the rest of us to watch a cat video on Facebook. Since becoming his own boss, in other words, Mr. Carmellini has cooked in and around the traditions of one country or another. At Little Park, he and his chef de cuisine, Min Kong, the executive sous chef at Carbone until last year, are working out their ideas from scratch. This may be why the best dishes there seem more fresh, natural and intuitive than what's on his other menus and why Little Park has less in common with Locanda Verde than it does with forward-leaning places like Estela or even the modern-Mexican Cosme . It is Mr. Carmellini's most contemporary restaurant. In a sense, it's his first. In the modern fashion, most dishes are of roughly the same size and complexity. There are no second-class ingredients and almost no side dishes. The vegetables are as intriguing as the animals on plates, like steamed black bass with bracingly vinegared lentils or the intensely beefy hanger steak under broccoli whose thin stems had been judiciously charred. Beets are, insistently, the point of the earthy and velvety risotto made from them, although crème fraîche and goat cheese do put extra wiggle in its walk. Flowers and shaved bull's-eyes of Chioggia beets on top keep the shockingly red plate from looking like a crime scene. It's a lucky carrot that ends up in Ms. Kong's kitchen; rarely is the vegetable lavished with so much attention. Some are roasted to a smoky sweetness, some are juiced and whipped into an airy orange custard, and still more are slivered into ribbons. All are flattered by the molasses notes in sticky black garlic and by a patch of cocoa nibs and toasted crumbs. At lunch, Mr. Carmellini and Ms. Kong send a stunning little sandwich down the runway, a celery root schnitzel with creamy, incisive mustard and apple-brussels sprout slaw on a sesame-seed bun. The celery root is not the most flavorful I've had, but it is soft in all the right ways, augmented by generous bookends of golden breading. I ate one and wanted another. Another small marvel: the first worthwhile spaghetti squash I've ever met. It was baked with garlic and a stealthy dose of lobster butter and upstaged the protein it was meant to support, half of a tiny lobster tail that wasn't warm enough to melt the herb butter slapped on top. There was other evidence of inattentiveness, like the oily mop of oversauced whole-wheat spaghetti with cabbage and red wattle pork. (The menu calls the poor hog "red waddle." No doubt it was a large animal, but why add insult to injury?) Little Park's servers also push the popular contemporary con that small plates are meant for sharing. As one of my dinner guests remarked, "That's like saying: ‘This is a studio apartment. It's perfect for a family.' " I know I wanted more than one of the frilly kale-filled ravioli sitting on a sauce of sweet roasted winter squash. In most other ways, though, servers are poised and helpful. They are quick to demystify the peculiar cocktails, like the gin sour dusted with beet powder, and the even more peculiar wine list. Josh Nadel, the beverage director for Mr. Carmellini's restaurant group, has divided bottles by topography ("river valleys," "lakes and slopes," "mountains and terraces"). This is an illuminating way to learn about viticulture, but it's a confusing way to find a red that goes with duck. Additional subdivisions into light-, medium- and full-bodied are easier to grasp. A bit of explanation may also be required with some of Jennifer Luk's desserts. What is frozen lemon fluff? It's a delicious white block of dense citrus meringue around which orange sections and candied ginger can happily revolve. How about cinnamon toast ice cream? It's something like crushed Cinnamon Toast Crunch cereal sprinkled over ice cream that tastes like sweet bread, and it's as charming as it sounds. As for the "winter sundae" of apple and beer, it's slightly more charming than it sounds, but maybe not quite enough more. When you think of Mr. Carmellini's restaurants, quiet and civility are not the first qualities that come to mind. Little Park has them. Desert-toned fabrics seem to soak up excess noise in a dining room designed by Gachot Studios that walks the line between midcentury chic and expense-account bland. Anyone who has faced down the unwelcoming committee at the door of Locanda Verde, or showed up on time at Lafayette only to be sent to the bar, or waited on the Bowery to get into Bar Primi, will appreciate the more hospitable greeting at Little Park. Some of my guests, arriving early for a 9 p.m. table, were already seated when I showed up. The calm atmosphere may be the least fashionable thing about Little Park. 