 Can a restaurant still succeed when it fails at what it says it wants to do? This is not a question critics ask every day. But then the place in question, Eleven Madison Park , is not a restaurant where most of us would or could eat every day. This, in fact, is one of the sticky issues raised by the drastic changes its two driving spirits, Daniel Humm and Will Guidara, have made since its last review in The New York Times, in 2009. Back then, when Frank Bruni promoted it to four stars from three, most customers still selected three courses from Mr. Humm's menu at a cost of $88. Today, lunch or dinner is $225 for more than a dozen courses. All but two are typically chosen by the kitchen. A few days in advance of a recent reservation, the head maître d'hotel, Justin Roller, sent an email warning, "Our tasting menu lasts approximately three and a half hours, so please plan your day accordingly." The last time I got a message like that, it was from my doctor, shortly before my colonoscopy. Meals at Eleven Madison now cost more, take longer and offer less variety from one week to the next. As might have been predicted, this took the restaurant out of regular rotation for many locals. Perhaps to make up for the loss of actual New Yorkers in the dining room, Mr. Humm and Mr. Guidara turned the restaurant into a theme park about the city . In its very early days in 2012, the result was the most ridiculous meal I've ever had. Nearly every course began with a clunky, humorless history lesson about steakhouses, appetizing stores, clambakes, cheesecakes and even Times Square scam artists. The patter overshadowed and undermined the food. Notably, it had no voice, in a city full of them. "Three-card monte is now illegal, but along the same lines, we had a deck of cards made for us," my server recited, before doing a magic trick. I never figured out how it was done, but the greater mystery was just why a restaurant charging hundreds of dollars for such kitsch would want to lecture diners about "hustlers and scammers." Some of this gab has been dropped, but not all. Even now, when any ingredient is grown in New York State, someone is sure to point it out. Hang on, New York has farms? And chefs can cook their stuff just like the ingredients I get at the supermarket? Wait, I need to write this down. Constantly mentioning the region only underlines the shallowness of Eleven Madison Park 's approach to it. (A server announced that the oysters grew "upstate" in Greenport, N.Y., which will be news to Long Islanders.) Mr. Humm doesn't dig down into the natural and cultivated landscape of his region the way, say, Christopher Kostow, Sean Brock and Dan Barber do. He practices entry-level locavorism. Objections like this buzzed before my eyes so insistently that at times they blinded me to what was going on in the soaring Art Deco space across from Madison Square Park. Which was: a roomful of people almost goofy with happiness. The woman dining alone with her camera shyly accepting an invitation into the vast and gleaming kitchen for a special course prepared a few inches in front of her; the couple watching, as if seeing their first sunrise, a sommelier who removed a cork by melting the bottle's neck with red-hot tongs; the guests at my table going limp as they tasted a crazily good braised pork collar and cheek in a dark sauce that was like pig marmalade; and finally even me, the overthinking picker of nits and finder of faults. Under the restaurant's relentless, skillful campaign to spread joy, I gave in. What Eleven Madison feeds your intellect can have the value of junk food, but what it feeds your mouth, stomach and spirit is something else. The restaurant tries as hard as any I know to bring delight to the table with every course. It succeeds so often that only the most determinedly grumpy souls could resist. Even the spoken intros have a role. They serve to tee up the surprises that emerge from the kitchen, which reliably turn skeptics into swooners, especially as Mr. Humm has axed some of his sillier gimmicks. (Back to Times Square with you, three-card monte.) More crucially to this restaurant's intent, the patter opens a window between customers and staff. The dopey speeches work like pickup lines; you may smirk, but at least you respond, and once you've done that, a conversation can start. Mr. Guidara, a front-of-house man who rose to become Mr. Humm's business partner in the restaurant when it broke off from the Union Square Hospitality Group, is a creative partner, too, working to establish a loose, entertaining tone in the dining room that sets Eleven Madison Park apart from its competitors. The servers are deeply attentive to details. As a manager told New York magazine , "It takes 10 months to learn how to pour water." The remote formality that typically comes with punctilious service has been banished. Servers want to make you an active collaborator in the fun. As Bacall said to Bogart, it's even better when you help. At the center of the collaboration is, of course, Mr. Humm's cooking. He is, at heart, a neo-classicist, a master of pruning the old-fashioned curlicues from the traditional haute cuisine of his training to make the pleasures more modern and direct. This isn't always clear when he is trying to keep up with path-blazing chefs like Grant Achatz and René Redzepi . But it's the force that drives his best innovations, like globes of celery root braised in a pig's bladder, inspired by the classic French dish poulet en vessie. The white globes will be bathed in a truffled chicken reduction and set beside a circle of celery root purée that has been spooned over, guess what, more truffles. And Mr. Humm, always alert to opportunities for spectacle, knows that beyond forming an airtight vessel for steam, an inflated pig's bladder shimmying around a copper sauté pan makes a great conversation piece in the dining room. Recently, the cheese course packed into a picnic basket was retired. A fondue has taken its place, and it is both homey and spectacular. The serving bowl is a baked carnival squash and the utensil a hot, soft pretzel stick from the protean pastry kitchen. There is no homily about the glories of the street-corner pretzel cart. You are left alone to revel in the melted cheese, to mash the pretzel against cubes of sweet squash, and to imagine anything you like. I decided to imagine that the fondue came straight out of Mr. Humm's upbringing in Switzerland, because it worked on my senses with the deep, soulful pull of a childhood memory. There are no printed menus at the start of the meal, just a conversation led by the table's captain. Once allergies and aversions are out of the way, two choices remain. One concerns the main course; the other is about foie gras. Mr. Humm is a virtuosic handler of fattened duck liver, so either the hot or cold version is likely to produce altered states of consciousness. He brings out foie gras's sweet and silky traits by layering it with braised red cabbage and serving it in a chilled wedge that looks like a slice of marbled Bundt cake; its meatier and robust qualities come through in a seared slice under fried brussels sprout leaves and smoked eel. Many people will choose no foie gras at all. I don't know what you can give a meat-avoider to make her feel she's not missing out as her dinner partner goes bug-eyed over foie gras, but the watermelon and goat cheese salad served to a guest of mine last fall was definitely not it. So much attention goes into the showstoppers that substitutions do not always measure up. By now, a more glamorous alternative may be in the wings. Many things are in the wings at this restaurant, which is defined above all by its fluid movement into the future. The New York theme may wind down, though I hope the manhattan cart stays, stocked with mixers for the classic cocktail and its five variants to be stirred up at your elbow. Whatever new theme rolls to the table after that may be only partly baked, like the initial New York menu, but Eleven Madison Park's true theme will stay the same: convincing you that you've been lifted to some better world until the man in the top hat outside whistles for your cab. Eleven Madison Park ★★★★ 11 Madison Avenue (24th Street); 212-889-0905; elevenmadisonpark.com ATMOSPHERE The high-ceilinged, generously windowed Art Deco space manages to feel both grand and intimate. SERVICE In their ability to pay simultaneous attention to technical detail and psychological nuance, Eleven Madison Park's servers set a new standard for ambitious dining. SOUND LEVEL Moderate. RECOMMENDED Tasting menu only. DRINKS AND WINE Dustin Wilson's wine list has depth and personality; American regions are a strong suit; bottles under $60 can be found with patience. Cocktails are among New York's best for creativity without discomfort. PRICES $225 for the tasting menu. OPEN Thursday to Saturday for lunch; daily for dinner. RESERVATIONS Essential. WHEELCHAIR ACCESS The dining room and accessible restroom are on sidewalk level. WHAT THE STARS MEAN Ratings range from zero to four stars and reflect the reviewer's reaction primarily to food, with ambience, service and price taken into consideration. 