 Houseman is a new restaurant where you can get, among other good things, an excellent roast chicken. "Big whoop," you say. "I can get excellent roast chicken at a place in my neighborhood." Well, no, you probably can't, unless you live across the street from Barbuto . But let's not argue. Let's talk about Houseman. It's on Greenwich Street in Hudson Square, on a block that the rest of the city forgot about after the Holland Tunnel was built and then suddenly remembered a few years ago. Across the street is a glass-and-steel apartment house by the architect Winka Dubbeldam . It looks like a venetian blind that got tangled up with the building next door. If I lived there, I would have been happy in July when the lights came on inside Houseman, illuminating the white brick walls and pale wood tables and chairs. By now, I'd know the hosts who stand in the doorway or on the sidewalk. And one of my daily routines would be checking out the changes on the menu, which is laid out like a newspaper's front page. Print lives! The date runs at the top to the left of the restaurant's name. A weather report is on the right. ("Gray. Cooler!") In the middle is a cryptic drawing; one night it looked like a pumpkin with some dangerous ideas. All around the page are boxes. One suggests an inexpensive wine, and another proposes a cocktail made with ingredients you've heard of. The rest are occupied by things that I am always very interested in eating. Since the chicken is the above-the-fold story, let's start there. In fact, it is half a bird, with parsley salad scattered on top and a thick slab of grilled bread spread with roasted garlic on the side. But in every other way, it is a classic Sunday night roast chicken. In restaurants, I manage to get a chicken like this roughly once out of every 50 attempts. At home, my average is closer to one in 12. I tasted Houseman's on three nights, and it was equally irresistible every time, juicy in every flap and joint. Ned Baldwin, who owns the restaurant and, with Adam Baumgart, runs the kitchen, said they weigh each bird before calculating how much salt to rub into its skin. However they do it, this is a roast chicken that you want to settle down with and take apart piece by piece. Most of the food at Houseman is like that. You don't taste it in politely appreciative nibbles. You throw yourself at it until there's nothing left. No menu layout can convey this quality, but when you find a restaurant that has it, you come back. The kitchen grinds sausages and grinds them well. One night, they were made from goat. If the words goat sausage conjure up a dry and wrinkled meat pouch, these were the opposite: pink, broad, juicy and gently spiced, offered up as a main course with a jammy tomato sauce and a bracing salad of dandelion leaves. Another night brought sweet pork sausages grilled then simmered, Portuguese style, with steamed clams, and very good. Houseman had an ideal late-summer dinner in its swordfish salad, a salade niçoise by other means. Hunks of fish, poached and then packed in olive oil and sitting on a mat of tuna mayonnaise, were surrounded by little potatoes, string and shell beans, and some cherry tomatoes roasted so they collapsed on your tongue. The menu is top-heavy with appetizers. Like that swordfish main course, they lean on seasonal produce given a Mediterranean cast. Roasted peaches were yielding and honey-sweet alongside chopped hazelnuts, crumbs of feta and crinkles of grilled pancetta. Drippingly ripe tomatoes, real September beauties, were submitted to a fantastic Middle Eastern treatment of sesame seeds, cumin and parsley, underscored by the tingling sourness of sumac. A long, skinny eggplant, its grilled skin stripped off to expose its pale flesh, was dressed with bright-green basil oil and sat on a swirl of uncannily smooth and lemony tahini. Can tahini be luxurious? This was. Even the snacks, often pandering little throwaways, are worthwhile at Houseman. Salted fried favas, as brown and crunchy as a nut, are a cocktail-hour treat with a Pat Flynn (a rum and Coke you can drink without losing your self-respect). A soft-cooked egg, split and topped with capers, anchovies and fried leek threads, is a fine idea, too. Houseman's dining room, which has an upright, right-angled, vaguely New England look, provides enough traditional comforts that the scarcity of main courses on the menu seems out of character. Mr. Baldwin and Mr. Baumgart may offer so many more appetizers because they expect a lot of customers to make a meal of them. But when there are typically just four or five main courses, and one of these is a burger, the margin of error is small. Sometimes, Houseman falls outside it. That burger -- two flat patties under melted cheese and a mushroom-onion topping -- deserves a better bun than the flavorless and somewhat dry one it gets, especially at $17. (Crisp but preposterously salty fries cost an extra $2.) When a fillet of striped bass poached in court bouillon with clam juice is sold at $85 for two people, it shouldn't be as overcooked as mine was. The dessert menu, which comes to the table written on an abacus chalkboard, runs into the same trouble. One of just three slots was thrown away on a scoop of lackluster blackberry sorbet in a nest of broken-up celery sorbet. The celery was more intense than the blackberry, which did not make it a better dessert. It's lucky the other two choices were so good: a peanut tart that's like pecan pie without all the goo, and a sundae of wonderful malt ice cream with cherries in syrup. Houseman is still a young restaurant, with room to grow. A better hamburger bun should not be hard to come by. Already it gives you something that a lot of places never do: a sense that almost everything was cooked for a reason. Until recently, Mr. Baldwin was the chef de cuisine at Prune , which gives you the same sense. Prune's owner, Gabrielle Hamilton , was underrated as a chef for years because, I think, she never seems to invent anything in the kitchen. She isn't big on shotgun marriages of ingredients. But she understands the pleasure, part animal and part something else, that we take from food that is direct and honest. Many chefs have ideas about how to cook. The really good ones have ideas about how to eat. Ms. Hamilton does, and so do the two chefs at Houseman. 