 Main courses are never as good as the starters, people like to say. I've always argued that a good chef won't let that happen, but I have to admit that it does seem true for a lot of Italian restaurants, at least in New York City. There are exceptions, of course, but as a general rule, it's all downhill after the spaghetti. One of several reasons to like Bar Primi , Andrew Carmellini 's new restaurant at East Second Street and the Bowery, is that there is almost nothing on the menu but appetizers and pasta. You can eat all the things you go to Italian places for without ordering a $35 grilled salmon simply to prove that you know fusilli is not considered a main course in Milan. Mr. Carmellini and his partners (Josh Pickard, Luke Ostrom and Sal Lamboglia) have not exactly discovered life on Mars with this concept. After all, this is the founding principle of cheap Italian restaurants across the country. It's unusual, though, to see it endorsed by a chef who knows better. Pasta is the whole point of Porsena , which the chef Sara Jenkins calls her "pasta-centric restaurant," as you know if you've had the firm, chewy rings of anneloni tossed with fiery lamb sausage and bitter greens. But then her menu proceeds to a full roster of secondi. To be fair, Mr. Lamboglia, a longtime Carmellini cook who leads the kitchen at Bar Primi, does offer one main course a night on a weekly rotation. (On Wednesday, it's the Italian sausage served at Mr. Carmellini's Sausage Boss kiosks in Madison Square Garden .) Each time I was there, the servers also pushed a special, a grilled branzino "muffaletta," which they said meant the fish comes with chopped green olives, like the sandwich. I ordered it once. It was fine. I preferred the pasta. The menu divides them into "traditional" and "seasonal." We would be here for hours if I tried to figure out what is seasonal about orecchiette with sausage and broccoli rabe, a widely known classic from Southern Italy, or which tradition gave us spaghetti with a sauce inspired by clams casino. The important thing to notice is that there are 12 choices in all, and one of them is almost certain to be exactly what you feel like eating. For me, on almost any given night, that would be the linguine with golden bread crumbs and garlic that's been slapped around in hot olive oil for a minute or so. It may be because the kitchen is using this season's garlic, but the sliced cloves (four of them, the menu says) tasted as juicy and fresh as corn and, in their oniony way, almost as sweet. For this, I paid $14 and counted myself lucky. Spaghetti pomodoro, also $14, is just as uncomplicated and just as right, with green basil clinging to plum tomatoes cooked to the halfway point between fruit and sauce. Mr. Lamboglia makes those dishes with dried imported noodles. Most of the other pasta is fresh and very good. Its finest use may be the fiore di carciofi, a long, fat spiral filled with creamy artichoke and mascarpone. The sauce (a hot ladleful of fried bacon, garlic, chopped parsley and white wine) works mysteriously well with this mutant, vaguely flower-shaped cannelloni. Bar Primi applies its sauces more liberally than a place in Parma might. Italian verisimilitude is not the goal. Mr. Carmellini and Mr. Lamboglia, who was raised in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, by a father who cooked for years in restaurants on and off Mulberry Street, have given the menu a red-sauce generosity, even when the sauces aren't red. Sal's Antipasti Salad is basically an antipasto sampler of the kind usually seen on a checkered tablecloth -- sliced salami and provolone, raw celery and radishes -- thrown into a tossed salad with a small blizzard of Parmigiano-Reggiano. It's impossible to dislike. Shrimp and octopus with boiled potatoes and pickled cherry peppers make a cold seafood salad that few checkered-tablecloth joints could rival. There are even meatballs filled with melted fontina in a rough tomato sauce. You want them to taste handmade, honest and delicious. They do. Grilled broccolini dressed with stewed onions and Aleppo pepper sits on a shiny, smooth brick-colored emulsion. It looks creamy and soothing. It is fierce, fiery and garlic-drenched, a fantastic trick played by the kitchen. The menu has minor dips but no major sinkholes. That disassembled clams casino over spaghetti could do with more clams and less cleverness. The day I had orecchiette with sausage and broccoli rabe, the divots of dough weren't as shiny with pork fat and olive oil as they might have been. The idea for Bar Primi came to Mr. Carmellini years ago, before he left A Voce and built his fief of a half-dozen restaurants in New York and one in Miami. The chance to do it finally came along when Peels quietly shuffled out of business this year. Taavo Somer, an owner of that restaurant, was hired to rework his Peels design, mixing domestic idioms like white paneling and mullioned windows at tree-branch height with rustic Italian motifs, like wine shelves of unfinished wood. The result is an inviting, civilized spot, one that reaches back over the Bowery's skid-row period to the brief age when the East Village was on Edith Wharton's map of New York society. Within Mr. Carmellini's fleet, Bar Primi is more a neighborhood hangout in the spirit of the Dutch than a big, booming circus like Locanda Verde or Lafayette . Like all of those places, and unlike the stereotypical linguine slinger, Bar Primi has a deeply affordable wine list you could happily get lost in. Off topic for a linguine slinger but very much on topic for a hangout, there is at all hours a great hot roast beef sandwich, shaved thin and kicked into action with spicy red pepper sauce. So sure of itself it is known simply as the Sandwich, it deserves to join the venerable epitomes of the genre found at Brennan & Carr and Roll-n-Roaster in Brooklyn. New Yorkers who have watched Mr. Carmellini's game throughout his career may complain that he now rarely drives to the basket for the spectacular dunks he used to throw down when he was coached by Daniel Boulud. I made that complaint myself about the unimaginative, stubbornly un-French cooking at Lafayette when it opened. But a well-timed layup like Bar Primi can win games, too. 