 FRANKFURT -- When young lovers dream of a romantic European dinner in a back-street hideaway packed with locals, those back streets tend to be in Paris or Florence, not Düsseldorf or Nuremberg. When thrill-seeking diners book long-distance travel to taste some pathbreaking chef's strange new inventions, their planes land in places like Barcelona or Copenhagen, not Leipzig or Dresden. Although the 2013 Michelin Guide paid lavish attention to Germany, awarding 3 stars to 10 restaurants there, neither those restaurants nor their chefs are household names in any country but their own. When Germany flexes its economic muscle, other countries jump to attention. When it shows off its gastronomic power, they shrug. Anytime the world seems to have made a secret pact to ignore a subject, curious minds grow even more curious. So off I went last month on a brief but industrious eating tour of Germany. I traveled to three of the cities foreigners are most likely to visit, Munich, Frankfurt and Berlin, making reservations in relatively new restaurants. None of them were especially luxurious or expensive compared with the rarefied dining rooms that are catnip to the Michelin Guide. German chefs tend to play a long game, honing their craft in the same kitchen for decades. Coming from New York, where chefs will put a restaurant on their résumés after working there free for a few weeks, I was deeply impressed by the German dedication to putting down roots. But I was especially interested in seeing where the country's restaurant scene may be going next, so I restricted myself to places that had opened since the start of this decade. Around the same time, my colleague Frank Bruni was pursuing a similar assignment in China , following similar rules. Unlike me, he stuck to the rules. I bent them to write about a very good meal I had in Frankfurt at Weinsinn , which opened at the end of 2009. My rationale: In its first months, Weinsinn was a wine bar, and didn't begin to evolve into a restaurant until it hired its current chef, André Rickert, the following year. All the Action Is on the Plate Mr. Rickert has a modernist's skill set and a modernist's talent for combining the serious and the playful. Look what he does to ratatouille. Even its fans have to admit that the dish, a lump of stewed vegetables mired in a tar pit of olive oil, is usually no great beauty. Mr. Rickert's version is a colorful, bright, edible garden, a field of couscous across which he plants black olives, shards of feta, a bright green mound of basil ice cream and warm cherry tomatoes that dissolved into sweet pulp on my tongue like berries in a pie. The ingredients were strewn all across the plate, but the flavors were firmly rooted. That was the case, too, with a dessert of late-summer damson plums that appeared in three guises: stuffed into a tender dumpling, frozen into sorbet and poached with cinnamon syrup. Weinsinn is compact, with only 35 seats in two small dining rooms. So is Mr. Rickert's menu of three appetizers, three main courses and three desserts. The wine list, on the other hand, goes on for page after page, although there is a simpler way. We asked the sommelier, Jens Gabelmann, to choose for us. He sized up our table at a glance and brought us just the wine we might have asked for if we had been able to put our wishes into words. Weinsinn is perpetually full but not a scene; all the action is on the plates and in the glasses. The owners, Matthias Scheiber and Milica Trajkovska, his wife, say they borrowed the idea of serving serious food and drink for reasonable prices in a lively, informal room from French places like La Régalade. "The bistronomy movement does not exist in Germany," Mr. Scheiber said. Traditionally, he continued, restaurant cooking in his country isn't taken seriously unless it "comes out of hotels" with highly formal dining rooms. The Best of a Long-Ago Empire Across the city is the current headquarters of Mario Lohninger, a chef who has cooked at restaurants formal (he ran the kitchen at the greatly missed Danube, in Manhattan, when it won three stars from The New York Times ) and informal (after Danube closed, he founded Silk, a "bed-restaurant" in a Frankfurt nightclub where patrons wore slippers and ate lying down). Three years ago he opened Lohninger in an elbow-shaped, salmon-colored building on the south bank of the Main River. The name is not egotism. This is a Lohninger family production, where Mr. Lohninger's father works by his side in the kitchen and his mother patrols the dining room with a protective eye. When she spotted a runaway squiggle of spaetzle on my white tablecloth, she clucked softly and scurried off to get a crumb sweeper. Mr. Lohninger has an instinct for locating the most pleasurable component of a dish and then intensifying it. Schmaltz piled onto brown bread is good, and so Mr. Lohninger's schmaltz, sweet with puréed pumpkin and crunchy with flakes of crisp chicken skin, must be very, very good. It is. It arrives once you have chosen from the menu, which is split into parts that mirror Mr. Lohninger's life. One side is called The World. On it, far-flung ingredients turn up like souvenirs from his time abroad. This is where you will find his interpretation of the black cod that he first ate in New York, served in a smoky broth with radish cannelloni. The other side of the menu is called Childhood. These are dishes from his native Austria, like the supple ravioli filled with creamy melted cheese and the beef-cheek goulash, a deeply aromatic stew made with sweet and hot paprika. The Austro-Hungarian Empire fell apart about 55 years before Mr. Lohninger was born, but his goulash may be its crowning achievement. A Safe Choice or a Dizzying Gamble In Munich, I ran into another split-personality menu at a restaurant called Geisels Werneckhof. In this case, the division results from the restaurant's, and perhaps the city's, cautious approach to change. For years the place served traditional food to residents of its snug neighborhood close to the English Garden. Two years ago, it was taken over by the Geisel family, but the landlady made them promise not to touch the leaded-glass windows, the chandeliers that still burn candles or any of the other classic German details in the dining room. She gave them free rein to change the kitchen, though. Tohru Nakamura took her up on it. The chef since April, Mr. Nakamura was born in Munich and learned to cook there before going off to study new techniques at restaurants in Japan and the Netherlands. To get the effects he had learned abroad, he had the kitchen outfitted with induction cooktops, a teppanyaki griddle, liquid nitrogen tanks and a Big Green Egg ceramic grill. Now he was ready for the new international style of cooking. The Werneckhof's regulars weren't, though -- not all of them. For them, Mr. Nakamura devotes one-half of his menu to fairly uncomplicated, if refined, dishes in which a single, familiar ingredient carries the tune. His lean and precise artichoke barigoule, rounded out with a classically thick artichoke velouté and a fat poached oyster, won't scare anybody except those who fear harmonious flavors and luxurious textures. The other half of the menu can get pretty far out there, at least by Munich standards. I was deeply impressed by an elaborate composition of tender octopus, ginger-marinated squid, potatoes boiled with onions and bacon, and strips of daikon smoked in the Big Green Egg. Nothing too outrageous about this, but things got complicated in the sauce department: there was a Parmesan cream, a jelly of bone marrow, a miso gel, a garlicky aioli, a drizzle of browned butter, and a rustic vinaigrette with capers and anchovies. When Mr. Nakamura later detailed the dish for me, I felt as dizzy as if I had stepped out onto an airplane wing. At the time, though, I mostly noticed that every last thing on the plate was delicious. Keeping the Joy on the Menu The half-old, half-new menu at Geisels Werneckhof reminded me of something Justin Leone, an American sommelier working at a very good Munich restaurant called Tantris , had written to me in an e-mail. Compared with fad-chasing Americans, he wrote, Bavarians have "a tremendous appreciation for consistency and longevity." To see a city that was crazy for a taste of the new, he advised me to hit Berlin. Perhaps the most dynamic chef in Berlin is Tim Raue, who as a teenager ran with a street gang in the Kreuzberg neighborhood and then found his home in restaurant kitchens. By 2010, he had opened a place of his own around the corner from Checkpoint Charlie, Restaurant Tim Raue, but he wanted it to be different from the formal, classical, French-influenced dining rooms that he believed were draining the joy out of German fine dining. "I wanted to have a restaurant in Germany where people could be happy," he said. His menu was built around bright, exciting flavors from China, Vietnam and Thailand. To let customers know that fun was not forbidden, he dressed his dining room staff in Chuck Taylor high-tops. The sneakers put a spring in their steps, although when my server pulled on a single white glove to set down clean silverware, I couldn't stop humming "Thriller." And I was almost ready to moonwalk when I tasted the restaurant's Chinese-style suckling pig. A fold of pork belly had been red-cooked and then deep-fried, giving it a gentle sweetness under a terrifically crunchy layer of skin. I couldn't make up my mind whether I liked it better dipped in the little pile of salt and Sichuan peppercorns, or dredged in a reduction made from pigs' feet and dried tangerine peel. At times, the kitchen's palate skewed a bit sweeter than mine, but the suckling pig was supported by a refreshingly tart sour salad of spiral lily buds, tangerine sections and marinated endive. And a jellied veal terrine at lunch was showered with a riotous Vietnamese-inflected salad of lettuce, mint, green apples and pickled shallots. Mr. Raue, who has opened two more restaurants this year, seems to get Berlin's young, international spirit. About a third of Berlin's 3 million or so people arrived within the last decade or so. Of the recent arrivals, those from the United States are the most visible, or at least the most audible. I heard English almost everywhere I went in Berlin, starting in the taxi from the airport when a radio disc jockey interrupted his German patter with four words I understood perfectly: "American-style food carts." What They'll Do for Good Pastrami Like Brooklyn or Portland, Ore., Berlin is now full of cooks trying to make a living out of barbecue, bao and other populist staples. For sheer determination and stubbornness, I doubt many of them can match Paul Mogg and Oskar Melzer, who opened a New York-style deli because they couldn't find an easier way to get a good pastrami sandwich. They sampled pastrami imports, hoping for greatness. "These packages were showing up with the Statue of Liberty on the package, and the pastrami was so dry and sweet it was like a candy cane," said Mogg & Melzer's chef, Joey Passarella. A native of Nyack, N.Y., Mr. Passarella met his partners while cooking in Berlin restaurants. After some arm-twisting, he agreed to take on the task of brining briskets in the restaurant's basement and smoking them in the backyard. His pastrami is quietly smoky, noticeably peppery, not too salty, flagrantly pink. Sliced and layered on excellent, fresh, un-spongy rye modeled on the bread from Schwartz's deli in Montreal and spread with a close approximation of brown deli mustard from Düsseldorf, it adds up to a pastrami on rye that only a handful of delis in New York can match. Mogg & Melzer stretches a short distance outside the deli genre. There is a brûléed chicken liver mousse, for instance, and a compact but thoughtful wine list. If you come in the morning, you can ask your server for lox dusted with fresh horseradish and chives on a chewy, unsweetened hand-rolled bagel, which you can't do at Katz's in Manhattan , and watch the cooks working behind glass shelves lined with house-made beet pickles bob their heads to rap while steam rises from superbly light and jiggly cheesecakes resting on the window ledge. In a hall outside their deli is a small exhibition on the history of the building. It housed a school for Jewish girls built in 1930, when the neighborhood was one of Berlin's Jewish quarters. The Nazi government closed the school in 1942, and most of the students and teachers were deported and killed. Through the Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany, the building was handed over to the Jewish community in 2009. It now houses art galleries, a museum dedicated to the Kennedy family and restaurants, including Mogg & Melzer. That Jewish food is now cooked and eaten there certainly resonates in many directions. And I would like the building's story to have a happy ending. But I can't honestly write that the pastrami and bagels and cheesecake have any meaning that is deeper than their own quality. They are simply very good. 