 Gato galloped into town in March, pursued by the food media and Bobby Flay fans in a thundering cloud of hoofbeats. The first new restaurant Mr. Flay and his business partner, Laurence Kretchmer, have opened in New York City in nearly a decade, Gato is nominally Mediterranean, but the chef rides herd on pastas and pizzas and romesco sauces with a go-for-broke intensity that's 100 percent American. Mr. Flay brushes flavor on his ingredients in thick impasto strokes, making each plate a three-dimensional aggregation of char, smoke, capsicum, sugar, acid and fat. The cooking at Gato is many things, often all at the same time, but it is rarely shy. "Tons of olive oil," Mr. Flay promised in a January interview in The New York Times as the space in NoHo was under plywood. "Tons of salty flavors like anchovies and olives and capers. Lots of citrus. Tons of things like tomatoes and peppers, both hot and sweet." Stand aside, all you chefs fiddling with tweezers and eyedroppers; Bobby Flay is backing up an 18-wheeler loaded with anchovies. Of the first generation of gunslinging Food Network chefs, Mr. Flay is the only one who stayed in the saddle as the channel's mission shifted from dump-and-stir cooking lessons to ticking-clock gladiator contests. He also kept his dignity; he acts like a professional, not a cartoon. Still, playing a chef isn't the same as being one, and as the real estate market picked off first Bolo and then Mesa Grill , his New York presence was whittled down to just Bar Americain , a Whitman's Sampler of American regional favorites. To audiences who don't remember how skillfully he conjured up bursts of sunlight in Mesa Grill's prime, Mr. Flay was in danger of becoming another Old West sharpshooter who'd joined up with Buffalo Bill Cody to delight big-top crowds by blasting holes in playing cards. With Gato, he's a grizzled sheriff pinning on his badge again and returning to the precincts where he first laid down the law. He's out to prove he's more than just a big hat. But the frontier is a-changin'. The townspeople expect all kinds of newfangled foolishness. If they aren't amazed by every bite, they'll yelp like coyotes. Worse, they can't live without small plates. Fine, Bobby Flay can do small plates. He can crush small plates with one hand. His bar snacks, three porcelain bowls lined up on a slate for $17, are compact flavor bombs that detonate quickly and leave a vivid afterimage. He'll stuff cubes of tuna tartare inside a piquillo pepper, pitting cool and raw against roasted and mildly spicy. He makes a tiny powerhouse of fresh chorizo wrapped in caul fat, and gives it some shaved pickled fennel to calm its hotheaded tendencies. Many chefs leave burrata to its own, oozy devices; Mr. Flay piles on roasted beets and a vinaigrette made from oil in which black olives have stewed, and suddenly it's a dish with something to say. I'm omitting some other stuff on these plates both for brevity and because they never swamped the rest. The size of the bar snacks may limit how much flavor-troweling Mr. Flay can do. Some of the bigger plates show his maximalist embroidery at its bring-it-on best; others seem to leave too much space for his BeDazzler . Rabbits have a famous love for carrots, but I've never seen one take to the vegetable the way Gato's juicy braised rabbit leg takes to its carrot hot sauce, which tastes like sweet fire. Nor have I tasted a tarragon chicken in which the minty-licorice character of the herb had the flute-note brightness it has at Gato, which carpets the bird's crisp skin with a variety of salsa verde made from chopped raw tarragon. Mr. Flay can put a crust on a paella like nobody's business, and the crunchy grains of rice, once you unstick them from the bottom of the pan and mix them with a steamed egg, fried artichokes and big, tender leaves of sautéed kale, have a flavor-texture dynamic that's just fun to eat. Steamed halibut promises all the thrills of curling up in bed with a bond fund's quarterly report. Mr. Flay plunks the fish into a bowl of saffron-tomato soup made from halibut stock and bulked up with couscous, and if it's not quite thrilling, it still has a winning depth of flavor, and some nuance, too. Nuance has never been Mr. Flay's middle name, but he can achieve it, particularly in the main courses. With some of the more hyperactive dishes at Gato, though, it's as if his years of competitive cooking have trained him to go for the knockout punch right away. He'll funnel every ounce of flavor into the first bite, and he seems to be afraid that if he leaves out some trick, the judges will have enough taste buds left to notice what his rivals are up to. Fettuccine was soaked with potent, briny squid ink and mussel broth until it elbowed everything else -- red prawns, mussels and a quiet green-onion purée -- right off the plate. A side of pimentón-dusted potatoes fried to shattering bits, like crumbled bacon, was oily enough on its own without the extra richness of a runny poached egg and salty enough without a frosting of Parmigiano-Reggiano. Cheese is wheeled out again and again: soft shreds of fontina in a chicory salad; crumbs of pecorino over asparagus and fava beans whose spring freshness would have been better off with just the yellow romesco; goat cheese with crunchy potatoes alongside that tarragon chicken; gobs of bucheron in a plate of scrambled eggs blitzed with romesco. Sweetness can turn up where it's not needed, too, whether in the romesco with an unprepossessing pork chop or in the apricot-almond dressing in that chicory salad. But if Mr. Flay sometimes lights up the tilt sign on his pinball machine, there is still a lot to love on the menu. There is a lot, period. Gato shows an all-too-rare generosity in its flavors, its eager service, its good-tempered desserts, like the summery blackberry crostata and the fromage blanc cheesecake whipped into a froth by the pastry chef, Clarisa Martino. Seeking a decent bottle of wine for $50 or under at an ambitious New York restaurant is becoming a lost cause, but there are more than a dozen of them at Gato. The wine list brings together affordable, everyday bottles with others that will sing their song to advanced drinkers. (It makes a happier hunting ground than the humdrum cocktail menu.) Given Mr. Flay's fan base, the dining room might have been a pack-'em-in nightmare, but there's space to flex your elbows. The architects at Rockwell Group, past masters at injecting life into big, boxy rooms, have turned this onetime homeless shelter into a flickering lair where the heat-lamp glow of hanging lights is set off against receding pools of darkness. It looks like a set for a TV show about sexy young downtown vampires who unwind over blood sausages -- "Cheers" for the undead. All the reviews of Gato note that Mr. Flay is really, truly working in the glassed-in kitchen. I saw him, too, not twirling cilantro sprigs at the pass but facing the burners, his back to the audience, like Miles Davis. He says he's sticking around indefinitely. Nobody can say he's giving us anything less than the full Flay. 