 Casa Mono has a lot to answer for. Founded by Mario Batali and Joe Bastianich in 2003, it was among the earliest and most influential restaurants to twist the Spanish tapas idiom into what New Yorkers learned to call small-plates dining. The Casa Mono style has spread far and wide, leaving in its wake a trail of cluttered tables, unpredictably sequenced dishes, and diners reduced to asking pathetically, "Will that be enough food?" All of this might earn Casa Mono the historical notoriety bestowed on early tremors of annoying or inconvenient trends, like the first spam email, if it weren't the case that almost everyone agrees that Casa Mono has always been very good. To that I'll add a contention of my own. The pleasures of eating there are both richer and more varied than in 2004, when this tiny, perpetually crowded restaurant was last reviewed in The New York Times. (Marian Burros gave it two stars .) Andy Nusser, the executive chef and an owner, kept the tapas fairly uncomplicated in the early days. Roasted piquillo peppers filled with juicy braised oxtail were on the menu then, are there now, and probably will be forever. The seared skirt steak, served with sweet stewed onions and a romesco that crunches with coarsely chopped almonds, is still one of the most elementally satisfying one-course meals near Union Square. It's even better if you eat it alone at the bar, which may be your only option on those nights when reservations are impossible. But over the years, the kitchen has branched out into cooking that a Catalan tapas-bar proprietor might squint at before deciding that tapas do not always need to be interpreted with a strict-constructionist approach. In this era of sea urchin overload, there is still a wild thrill to be had from the sweet and briny orange lobes at Casa Mono, stirred with chopped walnuts and lime zest into very soft scrambled eggs that have been splashed with colatura. The menu calls this condiment "ancient anchovy oil." How ancient I have no idea, but from the looks of happy disbelief around the table, I'd say just ancient enough. Or take the section of the menu called "Whole Organic Animals." You may ask how a small plate can hold a whole animal larger than a quail. What the menu is trying to say is that Casa Mono buys entire beasts that once browsed on Hudson Valley pastures, then carves them up and serves them in portions that in Spain would be called raciones. Casa Mono's drive into meatier terrain is largely the doing of Anthony Sasso, named chef de cuisine in 2008 when Mr. Nusser shifted most of his attention to other Batali restaurants. Mr. Sasso learned to swing a cleaver at Fleisher's , the nose-to-tail butcher shop in Kingston, N.Y. This is one butcher-chef who does not try to hand you a dripping bouquet of snouts and spleens. Most of his "whole animal" dishes are ones that even cautious carnivores may try. And try they should, because the reward will be flavors whose depth and complexity are still too rare in American meat. Streaky lamb belly, rolled around tomatoes and raisins, had an extremely alluring balance of chewy lean and tender fat; the quality of the meat made the splash of mint salsa verde seem like a new idea. Lamb leg, with its more untamed flavor, was braised in cider and cinnamon, then folded into a sweet and nutty mole, with a memorable trace of bittersweetness that came from dark Spanish chocolate. A slab of goat confit, patiently simmered in olive oil, had a clear, clean flavor. Goat responds well to extra richness, which it got from guacamole strengthened by goat cheese, and from half an avocado cured in sugar. Bricks of meaty and very tender pork belly came with fried plantains, thin slices of honey-cured ham, pickles, garlic and a honey-banana mustard whose sweetness didn't go over the top. As loaded with surprises as it was with flavor, this was Mr. Sasso's tribute to the Cuban sandwich. Seafood is a major theme on the menu, too, and usually a rewarding one. Four razor clams cooked on a plancha and sloshed with olive oil would have been great if one of the four hadn't been nearly raw. But baby octopus from the same plancha were tender inside and lightly crunchy along their suckers; they were served with shaved fennel and lumps of pink grapefruit, as they have been since Mr. Nusser dreamed up the dish a decade ago. The crema catalana hasn't changed, either. Burned sugar still tops the custard like thin black ice. It still comes with bay leaf fritters. You still eat these by pinching the stem, biting down and stripping the sweetly scented dough away from the leaf with your teeth. Other desserts have added layers of polyphony. The most rambunctious of all involves bite-size churros, their crisp ridges pressed into chocolate ganache. A scoop of crème fraîche ice cream is painted maroon by a sauce based on Spain's demented and inspired spritzer, red wine and Coca-Cola, fortified with cherries. It's a perfectly controlled dessert that seems to be on the verge of total, wanton collapse. Mr. Batali's other restaurants treat the Hudson Valley as if it were a lost region of Italy. Casa Mono does something similar, using the Greenmarket down the block as if it were the Mercat de la Boqueria in Barcelona, Spain. A softball-size heirloom tomato is dotted with popcorn-flavored aioli; pickled hot peppers are tossed over a voluptuous blob of burrata that sprawls across anchovy toast. The wines, of course, make a longer trip. In a miracle of space management, this micro-restaurant keeps what has to be the deepest, most pleasure-packed trove of Spanish wine in the city. The sherries alone, many bottled by the young, treasure-hunting Equipo Navazos firm, could see you through a solid month of meals. Titans like Pingus and Palacios are available for those who can pay for them, but Rachel Merriam, the wine director, has filled the list with well-priced discoveries, too. I found plenty of them with the help of sommeliers who seem to know instinctively when to stick with tradition and when to go off road. A request for something that would drink like cru Beaujolais was answered with a soft red Txakolina that had a bittersweet finish. And despite the crowds, the sommeliers always had time to talk. If you have questions about fractional aging, as we did, Casa Mono is the place for you. The sommeliers are so attentive that I didn't feel neglected one night when I couldn't quite figure out which server was in charge of our table. Service can be a little diffuse at times. In a place this size, though, help is never far away. Only three items (including a rabbit, in multiple parts) are listed at more than $20 on the menu, which runs from noon to midnight. The dining room, with glass doors on 17th Street that swing open in warm weather, is at its most charming in the slack hours between lunch and dinner. Even when packed, though, the little room has pockets of, if not privacy, then at least intimacy. The mosaic tile floors are now so worn down they look like Roman ruins. It's hard to remember when they were new. Hard to recall a time before small plates, too, and harder still to find a New York restaurant where they are satisfying, one after another, as at Casa Mono. 