 Back in the 1960s, when nobody except rats, longshoremen and gangsters needing to dispose of a wayward bookie saw much value in the Brooklyn waterfront, Michael O'Keeffe saw romance. He saw enough flowers for a year of proms, he saw a piano player massaging a Steinway, he saw a curtain of glass framing the Brooklyn Bridge and the lights of Fortress Manhattan on the other side. All of this he saw floating on a barge in the East River. After pleading for permits for 12 years, he persuaded City Hall to see it, too, and in 1977 the River Café dropped anchors. Did Mr. O'Keeffe see men producing diamond rings from their jacket pockets? He has seen it hundreds of times since. So have I, sitting at the bar one summer a few years back when a young man talked his date into catching the view from the deck outside then dropped to one knee, right next to the swiveling mounted binoculars. I'll never forget it, or the look in the couple's dewy eyes when they discovered that the door to the dining room had locked behind them. No questions were popped at the River Café for more than a year after Hurricane Sandy dished out a surge tide that even a barge couldn't stay on top of. When the River Café opened again in February, the walls, ships' deck floorboards, the grand piano, most of the wine cellar and nearly everything else was new. You'd never know it. Mr. O'Keeffe paid for a museum-quality restoration. As before, you reach the River Café by traveling down a cobbled driveway with lanterns and a miniature forest of plants on either side, as if Snow White's cottage were at the end of the road. The entrance casts its fairy-tale spell on a good number of wanderers who follow the winding road only to be sent away because they don't have jackets (for the men) or reservations (for everyone). Those who are allowed inside cross a short gangplank to the floating dining room, where captains in black tuxedos stand guard. On the right, flowers; on the left, a pianist who gently spoons out ballads for hours on end without ever seeming to need a break. He doesn't sing, but memory dredges up the words: When I'm close to you, dear, the stars fill the sky. So in love with you am I. This trickling brook of melodies babbling away in the background is more pretty than beautiful. Like many things about the River Café, it is white-limo elegant. But so few New York restaurants today reach for elegance of any kind that the resurgence of this one is a gift to the city. Even harder to find are restaurants where tourists can go to gape at the view and New Yorkers can go without being embarrassed. Windows on the World, once straight across the river, is gone for good, and the return of the revolving dance floor at the Rainbow Room, scheduled for October, can't come soon enough. No place in the city combines spectacle with hideaway intimacy and undiluted romance the way the River Café does. And if more customers will take photographs of the Brooklyn Bridge's steel underbelly than of their plates, the food is still much better than you might fear if you've been to other restaurants with souvenir views. "The kitchen aims to please but not to shock," William Grimes wrote in his two-star review 12 years ago , the last time the restaurant was assessed in The New York Times. That hasn't changed. Neither has the chef, Brad Steelman, who has been in his post since 2000. The sailor's "steady as she goes" might be the River Café's motto. An opening salvo from the kitchen, a single shrimp on a Southeast Asian papaya salad with crushed peanuts, makes it clear that flavor epiphanies are not in store. The rack of lamb I ate recently, which was inside a skinny ring of mint jelly zipped up with mustard seeds, appeared to be the same dish Mr. Grimes described. (We both liked it.) Radiating like spokes from a hub of firm, hand-chopped steak tartare are lines of mustard, chopped capers, shallots, cornichons and chives: the usual suspects. Mr. Steelman doesn't need his garnishes to provide hologram moonwalks, though. His main ingredients are almost always good enough to be their own special effects. For his shrimp Oscar, he sets hollandaise boosted with blood-orange juice against beautifully sweet Pacific blue shrimp and meaty white lumps of crab. In another appetizer called Three Shells, strips of abalone dunked in a yuzu-kaffir bath and firm little kumamoto oysters in a classic mignonette had the shining immediacy of great seafood, too, even if the third shell, Taylor Bay scallops ceviche, didn't quite keep up. And while poached lobster could probably find more exciting companions than celery root purée and slightly sweet-sour butternut squash dice, the lobster itself was tender and sweet enough to be a solo act. A duck breast whose skin has a terrific crisp shellac, seasoned with lavender and a trace of dried chiles, was better served by the cozy Eastern European comfort of glossy braised red cabbage and crisp squiggles of sweet-potato spaetzle. Some of Mr. Steelman's ideas can be questioned. His extremely good Barolo-braised oxtail appetizer would get along nicely with either polenta or pasta, but perhaps not with polenta stuffed inside pasta. And he piled too much breading on fried oysters, which were rescued from dryness only by their topping of smoked salmon and caviar. In general, though, he sticks to classic notions and we get the rewards; his mushroom Wellington turns the obligatory vegetarian main course into a real event. Desserts, included in the three-course $115 fixed-price dinner, could use refreshing. Vanilla ice cream and vanilla ice milk turn up on several, with no noticeable taste of vanilla. But that didn't hurt the milk-chocolate soufflé, already sweetened by a melting cap of toasted marshmallow, or the chocolate marquise straddled by a dark chocolate replica of the Brooklyn Bridge's towers and cables. Maybe a chocolate bridge is a little hokey, but so is dropping to one knee in front of the Manhattan skyline. In both cases what counts is not the originality of the gesture but its sincerity. In its desire to sweep us into its secluded, flower-strewn island, the River Café is sincere in a way that restaurants hardly ever are these days. At the end of a night there, I always regret that it's time to come back to the mainland. 