 The smallest blackout I've ever lived through was limited to the interior of a Thai restaurant on Spring Street, just off the Bowery, named Uncle Boons , where early one night the electricity kept cutting out, then flicking back on a few minutes later. Almost every foot of wall space is covered with pictures that might have been picked up at a Bangkok flea market: portraits of Thailand's kings, thrift-store paintings, prints of jungle beasts, a monster-movie poster in Thai and semi-English ("Once again dinosaur shake the erath!"). But staging a Southeast Asian power failure seemed to be taking the conceit a bit far. We didn't stop eating, though. I would bring my own generator if that's what it took to finish the mee krob with fried sweetbreads. In many Thai restaurants in the United States, the fried noodles in mee krob are dispatched into dissolved brown sugar with trace amounts of fish sauce and lime juice. The result is as interesting as spaghetti in pancake syrup. The sauce at Uncle Boons, which starts with tamarind pulp and palm sugar, was rounded and rich and deeply engaging. And a little thing like iffy wiring wouldn't keep me away from the yum kai hua pli, a salad of warm roasted chicken torn and tossed with crunchy threads of sliced banana blossoms. The chicken would have been great by itself, but it was the dressing that helped it shine through the power failure: warm coconut milk soured with lime juice and spiced with dried chiles to an intensity that I think of as handkerchief-hot. Uncle Boons must have fixed its electrical troubles, because they did not recur. What did return was my excitement at tasting Thai flavors so fresh and dynamic. The restaurant has less in common with Queens Thai dynamos like Ayada , Sripraphai , tiny Chao Thai or its roomier spinoff Chao Thai Too than it does with Pok Pok Ny , Andy Ricker's place on the Brooklyn waterfront. A few of its tricks might have been lifted from Mr. Ricker's backpack. There is the charcoal grill, visible behind a glass wall at the end of the bar. There is the tight menu that doesn't give you the choice of chicken, beef, pork, shrimp or squid with almost every curry, a concession that holds back some of the best Thai restaurants. Both places look like dark, woody Thai pubs, right down to their motorized ice buckets that shake bottles of Singha until they turn into alcoholic slush that you drink through a straw. (It won't be the best beer you've ever had, but it may be the coldest.) Pok Pok Ny follows through with many other wacky and excellent Thai beverages, while the drinks are Uncle Boons's prime blind spot. Neither of the two cocktails is a complete triumph, and even the iced tea with sweetened condensed milk tastes watery. But Uncle Boons has many charms all its own. The owners and chefs, Ann Redding and her husband, Matt Danzer, met while working as cooks at Per Se , and the marks of Thomas Keller's ballet academy are far more visible than you'd expect at a place that plays warbly Thai covers of "Another Brick in the Wall" and "Hang On, Sloopy." The tables are set with folded cotton napkins and traditional brass forks and spoons from Thailand. Three months after the restaurant opened, the dining room staff is already quite polished, poised and welcoming. The third time the lights went out, a server brought every table an unnecessary but delicious little apology, a plate of mieng kum, little one-bite snacks. Mounded on a soft, fresh betel leaf are fresh ginger, coconut, dried shrimp, peanuts and very hot chiles. You dab on some shrimp-paste sauce, fold the leaf over and pop it into your mouth, and right away your taste buds spring to attention. It's a preview of the flavors that will become major themes of the meal. Coconut milk is the foundation of the remarkably aromatic curry of chicken livers and fresh pineapple called dup kai kaeng supalot, and of an amazing massaman curry with shredded potato and braised beef cheeks that break up the minute you dip a spoon into the bowl. In place of the gloppy peanut-butter sweetness found in many American massamans, Uncle Boons makes a drier sauce with the exotic muskiness of a walk through a spice shop, punctuated by the crisp pungency of green peppercorns. Over four meals, Uncle Boons appeared to be working its way toward consistent excellence. Still, there was one night when the green mango salad tilted too far into sourness, and another when damp, clumpy fried rice with crab suggested that the wok had been a few degrees shy of the smoking fury that leads to great fried rice. Spice levels could waver, too. But with only one or two exceptions, Uncle Boons came through with searing heat when it was called for, especially in that chicken salad or with a laab of minced lamb wok-fried to a deep mahogany and served warm; fresh mint and cilantro temper the spice but in no way tame it. Subtle flavors have a place in Thai cooking, too. There's a hint of a 1970s suburban party dip to the lon pu kem, which offers raw snap peas, radishes, crisp green mango and Thai eggplant to be dunked into a bowl of creamy, coconut-rich crab dip. And there is just enough fresh green chile in a thin nam prik sauce to bring out the sweetness in charcoal-grilled blowfish tails or baby octopus that would fit in your palm if you were silly enough to place them there and not between your teeth, where they belong. A coconut-milk-based curry yellow with fresh turmeric is one key to the greatness of Uncle Boons's khao soi. But really, everything in the bowl plays a part: the chicken leg stewed to irresistible tenderness, the pickled mustard greens, the big frizz of fried cilantro-flecked egg noodles on top and the same noodles boiled in the curry. I wouldn't scream if Ms. Redding and Mr. Danzer threw a few more dried chiles into the pot, but this is still the best khao soi I've eaten in New York. Ms. Redding was born in northeastern Thailand, but before opening Uncle Boons she and Mr. Danzer roamed the country, and their cooking does, too. The couple may be in the market for a better electrician. But where it counts, in the kitchen, they have all the power any lover of Thai food could ask for. 