 Disco music with raw fish in the East Village may not strike you as a winning formula unless you remember when Avenue A had what was probably the only sushi bar in the city with a mirror ball and a D.J. booth. Everybody called it Disco Sushi, and I loved it for reasons that had nothing to do with the food. I had eaten enough good sushi to know I couldn't afford it. But cold rice, fake wasabi and sinewy fish mattered much less when vinyl records and the mirror ball were spinning, the tables were filling up with musicians waiting for a 1 a.m. gig at Brownies, and we were all on our third round of sake bombs. I didn't realize how much I missed Disco Sushi until I found Sushi Dojo, which opened this summer on First Avenue near East Sixth Street. There were no turntables in sight, but the room was filled with retro disco. Usually, bone-thumping dance music is the way restaurants say "we hate you" to their customers. But at Sushi Dojo the tracks by Chromeo, Sare Havlicek and the like were played at a humane volume and compiled with an evident love for high-sheen, poppy neo-disco. And while I didn't spot any sake bombs, plenty of people were getting bombed on sake. Ask the sommelier, Max Lidukhover, for a recommendation and he'll give you two samples that would pass for full pours in other places, and if you're not wild about either, he's likely to uncork a third. Along the way he'll teach you the basics. "Ginjo sake is very harsh," he'll say. "I don't recommend it unless you're looking to get wasted." This is not necessarily discouraged at Sushi Dojo, where you can see customers in lip locks, customers waving their arms in full I-love-you-guys mode and customers buying rounds for the chefs, a Japanese custom that the staff avidly embraces. All this would earn Sushi Dojo a heartfelt welcome to the neighborhood even if the food didn't stand out. But it does. The soul of this party is sushi worth getting crazy for, made by three chefs with a strong traditional bent: Hiromi Suzuki, Makoto Yoshizawa and David Bouhadana. Mr. Bouhadana is the ringleader , and the most exuberant customers seem to gravitate to his end of the counter. One night I asked Ms. Suzuki for $75 worth of sashimi and sushi, dealer's choice. Sashimi came first: entwined bands of unshy, oily horse mackerel under a stubble of chives; firm white squares of local striped bass; shiny sunset-pink Arctic char jolted with lemon; bonito seared by a pass of the blowtorch; a slippery-soft tongue of raw spotted prawn next to its armored head. The streaks of fresh wasabi I drew with a chopstick tip underscored what Ms. Suzuki had already done with her knives, her torch and her seasonings to enhance the texture and taste of each kind of sashimi. Next, she placed one matchbox-size piece of sushi at a time on a banana leaf: glistening golden-eye snapper; a purplish strip of needlefish with skin that flashed like steel; yellowtail belly that melted like whipped lard; wild Alaskan salmon warmed by Ms. Suzuki's blowtorch just long enough to melt some of the oils; and a delicate slip of sea eel, one of the finest I've found anywhere. This was more than raw seafood; it was the work of a thinking chef, and it was a treat. It was also a lot of high-quality fish for the price. If $75 is beyond your means, an entry-level 10-piece omakase sushi meal costs just $45, although it probably won't include many seasonal specialties like needlefish or rarities like live, still-wriggling octopus. Not every piece I had at Sushi Dojo was exceptional; baby cuttlefish refused to surrender its flavor, and I wasn't sure if a scallop, overpowered by wasabi, had much to hold on to. The rice can wad together stubbornly rather than falling into separate grains, too. But its gently vinegared seasoning blooms in the mouth, lifting up the taste of fish. There is a surprisingly long menu of cooked food, and while it doesn't quite keep pace with the sushi, it's more than respectable. If this kitchen fried it, you want it: shrimp in their crackling shells; a beehive of mizuna and seafood tempura with green-tea salt; a horse mackerel's skeleton, dispatched to hot oil after you've eaten its body as sashimi. Kurumazushi is where I would have gone in my Disco Sushi days if I'd been able to afford it. Ruth Reichl gave it three stars in its last review in The New York Times, in 1995. At the time, many sushi hounds regarded it as the best in the city. Some still do, but I am not one of them. My meals in this restaurant, hidden on the second floor of a small Midtown office building that, like one of the artist Ben Katchor 's streetscapes, has sidestepped the modern age, offered some extraordinary tastes: king crab from Canada; very sweet squid made tender by a fine lattice of crosshatched cuts; gleaming amberjack and horse mackerel; and a hand roll of fatty tuna and scallions that made me forget how to speak for a minute or two. But an omakase meal that starts at $300 should make you fall silent more than once or twice. Some of the sushi might have come from a far less exalted restaurant: the eel drenched in sugary sauce, the forgettable salmon roe, and an array of seafood that would have had no character at all if not for the dab of fresh wasabi. The fish was too cold, a particular issue with fattier cuts like toro. The main culprit, though, was rice, a mass of starch so in need of seasoning that it erased the flavors of the fish like blotting paper. And while the wasabi on sushi was the real thing, the green stuff on a sashimi plate, one course in a $140 prix fixe meal I ate in the front dining room, was not. That room is a cheerless place, and lacks Kurumazushi's greatest asset: Toshihiro Uezu, the chef. An antic, grinning presence, Mr. Uezu has as much fun as anyone in the restaurant. Standing between the sushi counter and a wall that looks like a raked sand garden in Japan, he slams metal trays of fish on top of one another, catches his breath, and turns to a customer: "O.K.! Sushi or sashimi? You choose or I choose?" And then he is off. "Horse mackerel," he says, reaching across the counter with a length of pinkish fish draped over rice. "Horse?" a customer asks, unsure he'd heard it right. Mr. Uezu loves this. "Yes! Horse!" he says. "Secretariat!" He laughs. Everybody laughs. Just like that, it's a sushi party. 