 Just after I accepted the fact that I was in love with a dish called vegan chicharrones locos, a phrase from Freud ran through my head. The phrase was "the return of the repressed," and it seemed relevant, somehow, to these fried squares of puffed wheat at El Rey Coffee Bar & Luncheonette on the Lower East Side. Porkless chicharrones would have struck me as sacrilegious a few years ago. At the time, I was busily cheering on the new cult of animal-flesh worship that was burying the joyless orthodoxy of the low-fat diet beneath slabs of pork belly. White meat, steamed vegetables and olive oil were elbowed aside to make room for chicken liver toasts, marrow bones and whipped lard. Chefs and avid eaters scorned anything that might qualify as health food, which by the standards of the time included any vegetable cooked without bacon. But as Freud knew, repressed urges find ways of bobbing to the surface again. Last decade, the return of the repressed looked like an entire pork shoulder torn apart by people who would leave the table with the glazed look of an anaconda that happened across a slow-moving deer. In this decade, it looks like puffed brown rice with raw cauliflower pebbles and kale at Sqirl in Los Angeles. It looks like an Allen Street marquee of Times Square dimensions screaming DIRT CANDY above Amanda Cohen's vegetable circus-slash-restaurant. It looks like chia pudding with hemp at Dimes on Canal Street, where they put wheat grass in their margaritas. And it looks like vegan chicharrones locos at El Rey. The dish turns a Mexican street snack, chicharrones de harina, into a salad, and turns salad into an event. These mock pork skins are tossed with mint and sticks of raw jicama in a bowl, the vessel of choice for return-of-the-repressed dishes across the country. They are dusted with smoldering Aleppo pepper and lemony ground sumac, strafed by a terrific hot sauce of chiles and pickled pineapple and mellowed with a nondairy cashew cream. Nicholas Morgenstern, the proprietor of GG's and Morgenstern's Finest Ice Cream , opened El Rey in 2013 with little more than an espresso machine and some shelves of pastries baked by Gerardo Gonzalez. Luncheonette was appended to the name when Mr. Gonzalez was promoted to chef a few months later. When El Rey was reviewed by Ligaya Mishan in a Hungry City column the following year, it served breakfast and lunch. Friends I trusted kept telling me that I needed to check it out. They said things like "the food is exactly what I feel like eating." They renewed their calls after February, when the dinner menu sprouted up. All these friends were women, and when I finally took their advice, I noticed that in the dining room, men were always outnumbered by women (they had yoga stomachs, quick eyes and nails as colorful and glossy as a Mini Cooper on the dealer's lot). I wouldn't read too much into this observation, but it seems worth mentioning because the voices that brayed most loudly about the virtues of animal fat tended to be male. The pieces of this tiny restaurant fit together like an empty wallet and a new $20 bill. Two high tables are each surrounded by four metal stools. A few more seats crouch beneath a counter that looks onto Stanton Street, and three more face an area the size of a bathtub with a single induction burner. This passes for the kitchen. Neon script on the back wall spells the restaurant's name in swimming-pool blue. The service is California chill. Ordering is uncomplicated. El Rey has few of the comforts of a larger, more elaborate restaurant, but none of the discomforts, either. Mr. Gonzalez is a native of San Diego. In his short time at El Rey, he has worked out a point of view in the kitchen that is distinctly his own, a blend of California-Mexican cuisine with some of the less punitive flavors from the health-food and vegan disciplines. In these tight quarters, his menu necessarily favors assemblage over cooking, by which I mean dinner will probably feature at least one salad. There is chopped kale that tastes brighter and more refreshing than the routine version. The shaved cauliflower number sprinkled with toasted sesame seeds has more surprises; it softens and picks up flavor as it soaks up the chickpea-tahini vinaigrette and the yolk of a poached egg. Other dishes have more ballast, but nothing will make you feel like an anaconda. Warm, marinated chorizo is essentially a tapas portion with something extra: chopped hazelnuts and threads of orange zest. Octopus, sliced dime-thin and marinated, Cuban style, is mixed with chopped hominy and tomatillo; it sits on white beans that have been puréed with squid ink, garlic oil and black garlic. I was still wondering if I'd ever tasted white beans put to such interesting use as I scraped the last smudges from the plate. Mr. Gonzalez has devised a winning, original tostada: shaved carrots and smoked sardines on a crackerlike corn tortilla on which whipped butter and thick yogurt are spread. Butter and sardines are longtime dance partners, but what sends them trotting off in new directions is the salsa verde of carrot greens. The kitchen has limitations, and not all of them can be blamed on lack of space. The brief menu reaches for the crunch factor of nuts a little too often. Should you eat the papas bravas the same night as the chicharrones locos, you may wish they did not both depend on the pineapple hot sauce and the cashew cream. But if you have them on their own, the crisp skins of little blue potatoes knocking up against pickled chunks of pineapple, you'll simply wish you had more. To drink, you may have a good oddball wine, or a twist on the michelada rimmed with Aleppo pepper, or white sangria turned green by shiso and cucumber, which gives you the pleasant illusion that you are fortifying your body with nutritious juices and not just knocking back one glass of wine after another. At the end of dinner, there is usually a single dessert in addition to whatever pastries the daytime crowd didn't make off with. One sultry May night, Mr. Gonzalez had carved up buttery lobes of Champagne mango, spooned mango pickle sauce on top and scooped some mango-passion fruit sorbet on the side. It was exactly what I felt like eating. 