 As soon as I heard about State Bird Provisions, the San Francisco restaurant where the food comes around on dim-sum trolleys , I hoped a New York chef would steal the idea. Now David Chang has. At Má Pêche , his sunken restaurant at the bottom of the Chambers Hotel in Midtown, the long cross-shaped table that used to bisect the dining room is gone to make room for the carts. Apart from a few dishes that Paul Carmichael's kitchen will prepare to order, like the fried chicken, most of the menu will eventually show up if you wait long enough. "These are David Chang's pork buns," a server says, wheeling by with stacks of bamboo steamers. A minute later comes a portable raw bar, and I say yes to chilled lobster knuckles dipped in a lemon-grass butter that the server just swirled together. Bringing Europe to Asia, some of the trolleys double as gueridons so meats can be carved and sauces heated at tableside. As uses of dim-sum carts go, it's much more clever than stowing a plate of preshucked oysters on the bottom deck. No doubt they were opened just minutes ago, but as they circle the room, they become as inviting as conveyor-belt sushi. At least the raw-bar cart has a theme. A few minutes later comes a server who's hawking about 10 items: two kinds of fritters, several raw seafood dishes and some salads. I can't keep all the choices straight and take only the shrimp balls, although they are so crunchy and juicy I can't consider that a bad outcome. When the trolleys have less to carry, they can turn ordering a meal into a point-and-shoot adventure. Despite a few misgivings (Wouldn't that roasted lamb taste better straight from the oven?), I enjoyed my dim-sum meal much more than the one I had at Má Pêche a year and a half ago, when the flavors were less focused and Mr. Carmichael's menu seemed to be struggling to emerge from the primordial soup of Momofuku tropes. In its four-year life, Má Pêche has skittered from one concept to another. If Mr. Carmichael really commits to dim sum, and gives some thought as to which dishes are flattered by the format and how many to send out at once, Má Pêche may finally find its identity. Or the trolleys may keep rolling right out the door. Má Pêche, 15 West 56th Street (Fifth Avenue), 212-757-5878, momofuku.com/new-york/ma-peche/ . 