 My dinner date had eaten in this room before. A Williams College graduate, she remembered its earlier incarnation as the school's alumni club. "I practically lived here at one point," she said, looking over her shoulder at the stuffed peacock stashed in one corner. "I took almost all my meals here." How was the food? "Ghastly." By the end of the night, she announced it is much better now. For that, she can thank her fellow alumni for selling the building on East 39th Street to a developer who turned it into a boutique hotel. Called the William , it opened before Christmas with two upholstered cocktail lounges and two distinct places to eat reformed English cooking. We were upstairs in the Peacock , a civilized, grown-up restaurant where Ray Charles shimmies from the speakers and the wine list is refreshingly nondenominational. One floor below, in the English basement (what other kind would an English restaurant use?) is the Shakespeare , a rustic pub with a rock soundtrack, soccer on both televisions and taps for British lagers and cask ales. The two spots share a kitchen, a chef named Robert Aikens and just enough dishes to justify corralling them into a single review. The food I ate during two dinners at the Peacock and one at the Shakespeare was always appealing; the settings were somewhat less so. This was particularly true in the Shakespeare, where in the early evening packs of beer drinkers can crowd out those of us who are there to find out if the shepherd's pie made by Mr. Aikens is better than the mound of ruined groceries that went by the same name in our mothers' kitchens. It is, by leaps and bounds. The potato crust, golden with sharp Cheddar cheese, blanketed a lamb stew, thickly spiced with thyme and rosemary. All winter, I had hoped something would push back at my interior polar vortex. This cast-iron pot of ground meat buried under mashed potatoes finally did. Other pub standards at the Shakespeare were true to form, like the highly credible bangers and mash and the fish and chips, with a light sheath of custardy batter around a hunk of very fresh cod. The Scotch eggs, molten at the yolk and wrapped in juicy, salty sausage before being plunged into the fryer, were good enough to eat by the dozen, although I would be round as an egg if I had tried. I was annoyed, though, when the $16 "pint of prawns" turned out to be a pint glass of ice cubes holding up five nearly flavorless boiled shrimp. The Shakespeare needs to do better than that if it wants customers to put the emphasis on the first word of "gastro pub." Right now, it lands firmly on the second. The Shakespeare's two rooms have low timbered ceilings, and the one with the bar, where I sat, has two TVs bigger than some movie screens. I couldn't make out much beyond that because the place was crammed with after-work warriors there for the drinks, not the food. I couldn't hear much, either. But I did feel something: the creeping damp chill of a full pint of beer that someone, in the crush of bodies, had knocked over on me. A champion drink spiller myself, I wasn't upset. My soaked jeans did undercut the warming effect of the shepherd's pie, though. If I had wanted to get out of those wet clothes and into a dry martini, one of the two cocktail dens at the top of the stairs would have been the place to do it. The armchairs are plush, the paneling is polished, the fireplaces are burning (with gas, but still) and the bartenders don't smirk as they mix cocktails as well structured as a Savile Row suit. The William has given Midtown the hotel bar that I've always wanted out of the Algonquin. The fireplaces came with the building. The plush and polish were supplied by Reid & Taylor Studios, which also designed the Peacock's two contrasting dining rooms. One has the flickering allure of the cocktail dens up front, along with emerald wallpaper in a peacock pattern. I wanted to eat below those peacocks. Apparently so did everyone else, because there were never any free tables. Instead, I was seated in what's called the Garden Room. Bright and oddly underdecorated, it is probably a better place for lunch than for the nocturnal consumption of meat pies. Mr. Aikens, a veteran of Le Gavroche in London, has done the gastro-pub thing before, as chef of the Dandelion in Philadelphia. He is far from a flashy cook. He just believes in doing things the right way, which often means the hard way. As our server put it, "The simpler the dish, the more complicated he makes it." For gammon steak, which in most parts of England would mean a slice of ham on a plate, canned pineapple optional, he starts from scratch. The ham is pork loin, brined in the kitchen, then grilled, as is the slab of fresh pineapple. Potato purée below, a sunny-side egg on top. I can't imagine finding a better gammon steak in England. Details elevate dishes like an honest chicken soup, or grilled Spanish mackerel on toast: the velvety, chardlike softness of the wilted spinach; the sweet-tart tension of the sherry vinaigrette; the crisp snap of the bacon. Roasted chicken came with a terrific plank of fresh pork-and-sage sausage and a run of gravy that neatly managed to taste rich but not oily. I appreciated the robust and musky spices and the fluffy grains of biriyani rice with a lamb curry straight from the kitchens of the Raj. The desserts are staunchly English and tended by Mr. Aikens himself. In another restaurant, this might relegate them to stepchild status, but not here. Mr. Aikens lavishes care on them, not to mention historical research and generous amounts of cream, eggs and butter. The result is a roster of sweets as deeply gratifying as any I've spooned my way through in the past year. One night, Mrs. Beeton's Snow Egg appeared on the Shakespeare's blackboard. The dish, a version of the French oeufs à la neige, comes from Isabella Beeton's 1861 manual on household management. In Mr. Aikens's hands, the meringue egg, rising from a sea of warm custard like steam from a hot bathtub, was studded with cracked pralines and decorated with kumquats in syrup. English cooks can work a hundred variations on the same idea, so another night brought a bowl of custard mixed with brioche crumbs below dime-size domes of meringue, melting and soft like marshmallows on a stick. Sandwiched in the middle was warm, fresh raspberry jam. It goes by the name the Queen of puddings, and asking for it is almost as good as eating it. 