 Wylie Dufresne was sitting at the end of the bar. In about three weeks he would open another restaurant of his own, but he had given himself a night off to check out somebody else's, Manzanilla. Its chef and owner is Dani García, a big deal in Andalusia and, as the first guy to bring liquid nitrogen into the kitchen, a member in good standing of the modernist sorcerers' club. At his flagship restaurant, Calima in Marbella, Mr. García makes trompe l'oeil tomatoes and fashions chocolate butterflies with mango wings. Simply by opening Manzanilla, his first restaurant outside Spain, on East 26th Street, he has drastically increased the number of chefs in town with whom Mr. Dufresne might conceivably swap recipes. Manzanilla looks like a grand entrance for Mr. García. For one thing, he and his co-owner, Yann de Rochefort, acquired some serious real estate. Their dining room is as big as a barn, roomy enough that you can walk to your table without turning sideways and holding your breath, although this barn has that overdressed look that is achieved by handing over money to a Manhattan design firm (in this case, Meyer Davis Studio ) and asking for something rustic. Quibble about the décor if you like, but it is not every day that downtown gets a major restaurant from a serious chef with enough seats that 8 p.m. reservations are not out of the question. As Mr. García's introduction to New Yorkers, though, Manzanilla extends something less than a firm handshake. Apart from some terrific, how-did-he-do-it desserts, it does not show off the kinds of techniques that might intrigue Mr. Dufresne. That is not a problem in itself; dining on the cutting edge carries the danger of cuts and scratches. But some dishes that ought to be free of risks are not, and the strain of running a kitchen in an unfamiliar city occasionally shows. At its best, which is about half the time, Manzanilla offers some very welcome takes on Spanish tradition. Here are six strong arguments for taking a seat at the bar, or a table. One: the tortillita gaditana, an amazingly airy wafer with tiny shrimp in their shells embedded in a batter made with powdered dried shrimp, which gives it the intense shellfish flavor better known from Southeast Asia. The snack is a specialty of Cádiz, although Mr. García smartly bends Andalusian tradition by pairing it with a kimchi mayonnaise. Two: the cuttlefish croquettes, breaded globes of seafood stew that are black with squid ink and preposterously rich with béchamel. The center should not hold; it is too liquid and soft. But it does, bound by a crunchy, golden crust. Three: tomato tartare, toast spread with a deep red pulp made from fresh, canned and sun-dried tomatoes; the top is beaded with the fresh, bright interior jelly that holds the seeds. If you've been avoiding tomatoes since the summer, this is a reason to close your eyes and remember how delicious they can be, even in springtime. Four and five: the two main courses made with creamy, short-grained bomba rice. One is called black rice, a more substantial remix of the cuttlefish croquettes, and the other is vegetarian, with zucchini and squash blossoms bringing a springlike freshness to meaty wild mushrooms that are cooked with al dente rice. Six: the top loin of sweet Ibérico pork given a Japanese marinade of sake, mirin and miso; it is sliced like steak and just as satisfyingly meaty, maybe more so. Oh, all right, seven: except for the gray and underseasoned testa, the Ibérico charcuterie plate is a joy, with two kinds of cured loin, lean and marbled; strips of seductive lardo; and best of all, marvelous ham with a border of fat that really does melt on your tongue. All of these are exceptional additions to the growing catalog of great Spanish tastes in New York. But Manzanilla had nearly as many dishes that were not in the same league. The whites of quail eggs, cold and runny, made a promising kale salad deeply unappealing. The sharp tang and tiny curds of a layer of goat cheese canceled out the smooth sweetness of a foie gras terrine. Beet-orange sauce and tomatillo gazpacho were lost on a platter of two varieties of raw oysters, neither very flavorful. If the menu hadn't said so, I'm not sure I would know that the bland log of white meat that broke into wet splinters was chicken. There was nothing wrong with a tender braised lamb shank in a sticky reduction, but little about it pointed to a chef of Mr. García's skills. And the best thing about a thin plank of New York strip cooked on a plancha were the flakes of sea salt on top. On top of other dishes: spheres. Here a sphere, there a sphere, everywhere a sphere. Spherification, a process developed at El Bulli , captures a liquid inside a thin membrane that bursts open on the tongue. Mr. García spherifies so many things that his restaurant is in danger of becoming a theme park of modern Spanish gastronomy. Spheres of olive juice brought a superfluous brininess to the charcuterie, which was salty enough on its own. Little spheres of mignonette sat on two of the oysters, and big spheres of citrus dressing swamped raw slices of sea bass. Mr. García's chops are put to far more compelling and delicious use in the dessert course. A stunningly good and custardy rice pudding is dotted with kernels of freeze-dried raspberry, yogurt and white chocolate, the kind of surprise you wish you could still get out of children's cereal. A whole bag of tricks is applied to a barely frozen dessert Mr. García calls a pineapple iceberg but which looks more like a tall slice of yellow meringue in a pool of passion-fruit and yogurt custard. Close your mouth and the iceberg collapses into a contented swoon of cool tropical froth. There's also this silver egg -- not a sphere, an egg -- called Marbella's Full Moon. A white chocolate shell filled with white chocolate mousse and a yolk-colored citrus jelly, it is at once a technical wonder, a visual gem and a very good thing to eat. Maybe Manzanilla is underestimating New Yorkers' appetite for the best of current Spanish cooking. That might account for the kitchen's occasional lack of conviction and the proliferating spheres. The moon may be full in Marbella. It would be wonderful to see it shine in Manhattan, too. 