 Good morning. (Want to get California Today by email? Here's the sign-up .) The police briefing on a hostage-taking at a Trader Joe's in Silver Lake that gripped Los Angeles on Saturday afternoon had just ended. But as Mayor Eric M. Garcetti started walking away, reporters stopped him for one more question. What did Mr. Garcetti have to say about the death of Jonathan Gold? Mr. Gold, 57, was the restaurant critic for The Los Angeles Times. For anyone outside of Los Angeles, it is difficult to appreciate what kind of an outsized figure Mr. Gold was in the fabric of the city he called home: much more than just another restaurant reviewer or hometown institution. It was not at all surprising that Mr. Gold's death merited a question to the mayor, followed by an official tribute from City Hall. Or that it inspired a day of tributes from shocked admirers. (He had been diagnosed with pancreatic cancer in early July.) "We are all so heartbroken," Roy Choi, the chef behind Kogi, a Korean taco food truck, said on Instagram . For many people, the joy of Saturday mornings was turning -- even before coffee -- to Mr. Gold's latest inside the Saturday section. The more devout of his fans plucked the reviews off the internet the night before. His reviews sent people scurrying to all corners, and produced lines-out-the-door waits at what otherwise might be unknown restaurants, like Jitlada or Chengdu Taste. You could tell they were Jonathan Gold patrons by the way they peered at their phones, consulting his review before ordering. His annual list of the best 101 restaurants was a road map: Working through it (or claiming you did) was a competitive rite of passage. (And so was arguing over some of his rulings: Was Vespertine in Culver City the best restaurant of the year?) In a world of anonymity, Mr. Gold was unmissable: A friend described him as "a combo of Falstaff and Custer." He was a celebrity, but he was warm, engaging and lacking pretension. Saturday mornings are going to feel a little empty now. • Here's his obituary in The Los Angeles Times. [ The Los Angeles Times ] Along with notable reviews for the paper. [ The Los Angeles Times ] • Here's our restaurant critic Pete Wells on Mr. Gold: "Many claims have been made for Gold's criticism, but he saw his work in modest terms. He wanted to make Los Angeles smaller." [ The New York Times ] • Gustavo Arellano writes that Southern California has lost "one of our greatest and most important literary voices ." • Ruth Reichl reminds us that Mr. Gold could be maddening . Meeting deadline was not his strong suit. But then, she recalls, he'd turn in something so darn good you'd forgive him. • The chef Kris Yenbamroong credits Mr. Gold with saving Night+Market , which had been struggling until the critic came to visit . • And Eater lets us hear from Mr. Gold in his own words . • On N.W.A., for L.A. Weekly , in 1989. • On Dr. Dre and Snoop Dogg, for Rolling Stone , in 1993. • Mr. Gold wrote this essay about his neighborhood and L.A. after the riots tore the city apart in 1992. • He famously ate his way down Pico Boulevard and wrote about it in this 1998 story for L.A. Weekly . • Here is the set of reviews that won Mr. Gold the 2007 Pulitzer Prize in criticism. • And here's a link to the documentary "City of Gold." (Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.) • A raging wildfire continues to burn just outside of Yosemite National Park. [ The San Francisco Chronicle ] • Did an innocent man die in prison for a murder committed by the East Area Rapist ? [ The Sacramento Bee ] • The state agency that regulates physicians has stripped the University of Southern California's former medical school dean of his license to practice medicine. [ The Los Angeles Times ] • State leaders want to create a single authority to manage the electric grid for most or all of the West. The plan promises to cut costs for consumers while helping to bolster use of carbon-free power sources. [ The New York Times ] • The Pathway Home in Yountville that was the scene of a deadly shooting will not reopen. [ The San Francisco Chronicle ] • The "other World Cup" -- one for rugby -- has converged on San Francisco. [ The New York Times ] • How is the Clippers' biggest fan dealing with LeBron's move to the Lakers? [ The New York Times ] • Disney fired the creative force behind its "Guardians of the Galaxy" movie franchise after jokes he wrote on Twitter several years ago involving pedophilia and rape were resurfaced. [ The New York Times ] • A huge earthquake off the coast of Japan sent a tsunami crashing into a nuclear plant in Fukushima, setting off a nuclear crisis. Now a group of French nuclear physicists say they have stumbled on Fukushima's signature in Northern California wine . [ The New York Times ] We leave you with one last bit of wisdom from Mr. Gold. In a photo he posted on Instagram in 2017, Mr. Gold handed down five L.A. eating rules that are worthy of being printed out and tacked to a wall. Here's to restaurants hidden inside strip malls, driving 15 minutes beyond our comfort zones to get to them and Mr. Gold, who invited us to join him at his table whenever we arrived. California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com . California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley. 