 We were halfway through appetizers at Cherche Midi, passing the steak tartare and spreading anchovy toasts with softly jiggly Parmesan custard, when one of my guests suddenly tilted his head and listened. He looked like the boy in a tornado movie who notices that the birds have stopped singing. "There's no music," he said. "They have speakers all over the dining room, but they're not using them." The restaurateur Keith McNally opened Cherche Midi in June on the corner of Houston Street and the Bowery, in a neighborhood where you don't go out to dinner unless you are prepared to shout over some Pavement song the chef loved in college. But we were talking, with no recorded soundtrack, as if we were in some Continental restaurant off Sutton Place in 1964 eating veal Orloff by candlelight. This is the paradox of Mr. McNally. Food writers who were still eating applesauce through a straw when he opened his first restaurant ( the Odeon , 1980) write about him with the same reverence that music writers have for Leonard Cohen. He's "the king of cool," the restaurateur who "owns NYC." Yet when it comes to current dining trends, particularly those in favor downtown, Mr. McNally shows a healthy disregard, verging at times on hostility. Of the six restaurants he operates between 14th Street and Canal Street, Cherche Midi may be his most thorough repudiation of the downtown scene. It isn't just music that's missing. There's almost no view of the street. Tapas, shared plates, tasting menus, wine pairings, "Chef recommends," two-hour waits for a table the size of a chessboard -- no, none of that. Nor did Cherche Midi's servers try to tell me "how the menu works," as if it were some complicated and expensive piece of machinery that I was likely to break. In Mr. McNally's restaurants, chefs are rarely treated like stars. At Cherche Midi, two men, Shane McBride and Daniel Parilla, share the work and the credit. As a result, perhaps, their cooking is almost egoless; it's not about what they want. It's about what you want, especially if that happens to be red meat and French wine. The prime rib may be the only dish at Cherche Midi that could be accused of trying to make an impression. The dark, roasted edges had the irresistible intensity of the bark on great barbecued brisket, even on the night they were aggressively salted. Lending this slab of dry-aged beef a bit of finesse is the side dish of pommes soufflées, like inflatable potato chips or, as one guest said, "gluten-free beignets." The menu gives three more main-course slots to beef. Steak frites does a fine impersonation of a Parisian bistro steak, the kind you don't mind chewing and chewing between glasses of the house Beaujolais Villages, served at Cherche Midi in an $18 carafe. Filet mignon au poivre is far more tender, of course, with less sacrifice in flavor than usual. The tall, compact, rather lean, drip-free and wholly excellent burger is made from dry-aged prime rib; if you put your nose close enough, you can smell the meat locker right through the aroma of onion-bacon jam. All three dishes come with dark, skinny fries. Cherche Midi is so good with beef that even the best of the other main courses may register as a half step down: a pot of fat, clean mussels with bits of preserved lemon clinging to them; a roast chicken done right; a salade niçoise that pays attention to the last detail, including, in a wonderful departure from tradition, the pile of smashed potato salad at the bottom of the bowl. Here and there, the kitchen tends to overembellish. The decent roasted salmon comes with a lentil salad that tries to do too many things at once, and limp white stewed onions and fennel did not give skate Grenobloise (billed as meunière) anything that it really needed. It would be nice, too, to taste the meat under the aggressive seasoning in the steak tartare appetizer, given the chefs are clearly buying good beef. At least it made a strong impression, which is more than I can say for the $18 heirloom tomato salad. Heirlooms from where, exactly? Food Emporium? Still, unless you are coming to Cherche Midi to commune with the essence of summer, it is a good enough salad. The desserts are much better than that. The floating islands, the mocha pot de crème, the small pink raspberry soufflé hovering above a bed of warm berries -- the lineup is one argument after another for bringing back old-fashioned pleasures. After a recent tour of all his restaurants, I think Mr. McNally's great talent may be knowing which things are worth worrying about and which can get by with being just good enough. At Morandi , the main courses were almost impressive in their mediocrity, but the pasta was just swell, which may be all the place needs to keep its chairs full. The short-rib patty melt was the only good dish on a table full of disappointments at Schiller's Liquor Bar , but I enjoyed myself more than I have at far better restaurants. There is a limit, though, and Balthazar is approaching it. The cooking, under Mr. McBride, has become utterly mundane, a pretty but flavorless imitation of French food of the kind found at any generic fake bistro. Cherche Midi's salade niçoise is delicious from start to finish; Balthazar's is a bowl of ingredients that can't remember what they're supposed to taste like. How can the same chef and the same restaurateur be responsible for both? Mr. McNally does worry about service, which at Cherche Midi manages to be everywhere without crossing the line to helicopter waitering. And, of course, he worries about the interiors. Cherche Midi's is lovely. Outside is a dystopian intersection. You'd never know it in the dining room, which feels intimate, almost private, although of course every face is on display, bathed in light the color of apricot jam. For three decades, Mr. McNally has been rooting around in the same Lego kit: distressed mirrors, chipped subway tiles, bottles backlighted to look like stained glass. In his hands, these well-worn tricks give restaurants the battered nobility of a vintage Saab. When anyone else tries, they end up with a 1986 Ford Escort. Sets and lighting will never be the whole show. 