 "I want everybody to sing on this one," the man behind the Casio at the far end of the dining room calls out. "Come on, the two North Korean Jews in the back!" Do I have to fill in the picture? To know where we are, do you need to see the smeared pitchers of schmaltz on every table? Smell the chopped garlic on every steak? Hear the yip of the small child whose head hits the ceiling as he is hoisted on a chair by adults drunk on "Hava Nagila" and Stolichnaya? Did you think the person commanding the imaginary visitors from North Korea to get up and dance the hora was the maître d'hôtel of Per Se? No, the only possible setting is Sammy's Roumanian Steakhouse , the most wonderful terrible restaurant in New York. What happens at Sammy's doesn't happen at other restaurants, and vice versa. The rest of the Lower East Side can obsess over filament light bulbs and salvaged barn beams; Sammy's, virtually unchanged since opening in 1975, will be ready when fluorescents and drop ceilings make their triumphant return to fashion. Inside the dining room, lighted like a bail bondsman's office in Detroit, are hundreds of faded business cards, yellowed newspaper clippings and curled snapshots taped and tacked to every surface. Outside on Chrystie Street, scaffolding obscures the faded red and yellow painted signs in front of the building, which looks as if it has been marked for demolition. Like a Mississippi juke joint, Sammy's seems to have been put together under the theory that nobody is likely to stay sober long enough to inspect the décor. (Known for selling vodka bottles encased in ice, Sammy's is New York's original bottle-service restaurant, and still the only tolerable one.) Other steakhouses can drive themselves crazy over internal temperatures. At Sammy's, the meat will be cooked. If you have something more specific in mind, if you want it medium or black and blue, then write your request on a sheet of paper, tear it into small pieces and throw them into the air when the piano player sings "Happy Birthday." Two times I asked for garlic-smeared skirt steak, called Romanian tenderloin at Sammy's, cooked medium rare. One steak arrived medium well, and the other time a single steak ranged from well done to bloody, and every degree in between. I wasn't asked how I wanted a broiled veal chop. It was seared on the outside and raw inside, the way other places serve tuna. When nobody asked how I wanted sweetbreads broiled, I feared the worst. Another surprise: Scored and blackened on top, they were close to perfect. The servers follow a template unique to this restaurant, too, dressed in Sammy's T-shirts and jeans with a dishrag swinging from one pocket. Speed trumps ceremony. Standing over a metal bowl of chopped liver, they pour a cascade of schmaltz from on high, go at the liver with forks to mix in the shredded radishes, fried onions and lumps of fried chicken skin, and do not necessarily notice the stray bits that escape the bowl and land on the table. The ritual ends, not with "bon appétit" or "enjoy your meal" but with, "O.K., start eating." The classic style of waiting tables at Lower East Side Jewish restaurants, by turns cranky, funny and crankily funny (discerning one from another could take decades of practice) probably died with Ratner's, but flashes of it still surface at Sammy's. One night, when we kept asking our server if we'd ordered enough, he rolled his eyes, checked his watch and said, "Tell you what: If you're still hungry, the Chinese food will be here at 9:30." Hungry we weren't. As always at Sammy's, I walked out feeling as if I had eaten a football stuffed with chicken fat and beef. The kitchen, so unpredictable when it comes to meat temperatures, is absolutely consistent in its ability to produce starch that detonates inside the stomach. The fried kreplach are grenades of dough with a tiny core of chopped meat that tastes like dough, too. The latkes are flavorless and textureless, but not weightless. Better than either, the kishke could stand some gravy and some salt. In fact, with the exception of the grandmotherly sweet-and-sour stuffed cabbage, almost everything at Sammy's needed salt. Once it was added freely, the chopped liver was beyond reproach, the skirt steaks and lamb chops were excellent, and the fried silver-dollar potatoes were worth talking about. I can't figure out why Sammy's is cutting back on sodium after all these years, unless it is suddenly trying to atone for decades of treating schmaltz as a dietary supplement. The menu is less distinctively Romanian than it once was. The last review of Sammy's in The New York Times, written by Mimi Sheraton in 1982, praised the Romanian salad of whipped eggplant with green peppers; the broiled brains; the mush steak; the pitcha, a seasoned gelatin made from calves' feet and garlic; and the baked unborn eggs. The recent menus, stapled inside manila folders as they have been since the Koch administration, haven't offered any of these specialties. This is how a culture disappears. But if Romania has faded, Sammy's is still loudly, raucously, endlessly, embracingly Jewish, a permanent underground bar mitzvah where Gentiles can act like Jews and Jews can act like themselves. One night, I went with a woman who had spent the summer in Europe, as synagogues and Jewish-owned shops burned in one city after another. In Sammy's basement, when strangers joined their hands in the air and danced between the tables, eyeing our food as they passed, I could see her grow less tense every minute. "It feels so good to be back in a place where I can be out," she finally said. And if this is not your heritage -- if you aren't quite sure what is happening when the man at the keyboard belts out "Sing us a song, you're the schmatte man" -- the entertainers at Sammy's will still get to you. Dancing and singing along to some dumb old tune being played by a musician in the corner: This is how people had fun in the Old World, by which I don't mean just the parts of Europe where the Lower East Side's Jews came from, but also the world before amplifiers and apps and first-person-shooter video games and all the forms of entertainment that drive us into ourselves. Sammy's forces you out of yourself; I don't think there's another restaurant in New York where people talk to strangers as readily as they do here. "Would you like me to take your picture?" somebody at the next table asked one night. "Do you want our seltzer charger for your egg creams?" another asked us. As a table of about two dozen people filed out, a woman in the back called to them, "Thank you for dancing with us!" Is this a three-star restaurant, as Mimi Sheraton thought in 1982? By today's standards, of course not. It is closer to one. But if you need stars to tell you what to think of Sammy's, I'm not sure I want to share my seltzer charger with you. I'll give it to those nice North Korean Jews instead. 