 Shrinking modesty is not the normal attitude for restaurants with a view. The Rainbow Room had Art Deco razzmatazz and its revolving dance floor; Windows on the World, before terrorists destroyed it, served cocktails in a room named the Greatest Bar on Earth. Manhatta , which recently opened on the 60th floor of an International Style tower downtown, doesn't follow their lead. It is the least show-offy skyscraper restaurant you've ever seen. The whole operation is very orderly and well behaved, apart from its refusal to spell its own name correctly. (The reference is to the Lenni Lenape name Manahatta, or Mannahatta, meaning "island of many hills," but without the second "a" the name just looks incomplete. It's like a child named Henr.) A dedicated door around the corner from the building's main entrance brings you into a foyer that, with its sleek chairs and coffee tables, looks like the lobby of one of those 1960s white-brick apartment buildings in the East 40s and 50s. When you get out of the elevator -- it goes to just one floor, the top -- a short walk leads to another sparsely furnished sitting area, this one looking out the windows toward the harbor and the Verrazzano-Narrows Bridge. When the lounge hasn't been rented out for parties and sealed off, it's busier than the foyer downstairs, but it still appears to have been designed for people who are waiting for their dates to get back from the restroom. In the other direction are Manhatta's bar, a longish counter whose seats face uptown, and its dining room, which looks both north and east toward Brooklyn. The color scheme, navy-blue leather and dark wood, might strike the Knickerbocker Club 's board as a little too conservative. An open kitchen has been dropped down into the middle of all this, but the overall design strategy is to sit back and let the windows do the work. Danny Meyer, whose Union Square Hospitality Group runs Manhatta through a management contract with the building's owner, told The New York Times last year that Manhatta would not be as flamboyant as a typical top-floor restaurant. "Those kinds of places often do not live up to expectations; they try too hard to live up to the view," he said. "I expect to conceive of it like a ground-floor restaurant, as a place people might want to visit regularly." You can't blame Mr. Meyer for not wanting to open a mediocre splashy restaurant, but Manhatta flirts dangerously with being a mediocre unsplashy restaurant. The chef, Jason Pfeifer, doesn't quite let that happen. His French menu, grounded in seasonal flavors, is fairly priced at $78, including tip, for a three-course prix fixe. A good amount of it is very likable, but there are more spongy patches than there probably should be. At their best, Manhatta's better appetizers and main courses are fleshed out with fruits and vegetables so ripe and pristine they seem to come from a Greenmarket stall that only Mr. Pfeifer can see. A melon and cucumber salad with fluffy curds of feta was an exploration of melonic potential; each section of fruit was a bit different, some infused with citrus, others dripping with unfiltered garden-patch sweetness, all of them tangy with white balsamic vinegar. An admirably cooked brick of halibut was paired with bittersweet fennel bulbs and a mustard sauce with a gentle but effective bite. Raw nectarine crescents, braised lettuces and tender thin wheels of immature corn on the cob augmenting a main course of chicken were their charming selves, and all the better for their slinky dressing of chicken jus. Sweet black figs stood in for apples in a memorable little tarte Tatin garnished with raw pale-green figs. (Jennifer Bretania and Vanesa Beltran share the pastry duties.) Gently marinated hen-of-the-woods mushrooms made an exquisitely woodsy counterpoint to ruffles of shaved La Marotte sheep cheese. But generous applications of produce don't always save the food from seeming a bit safe, conservative and slightly dated. Mr. Pfeifer, who spent eight years in the kitchen at Maialino , Mr. Meyer's Roman-inspired restaurant, is now cooking French food in the post-nouvelle mode that Daniel Boulud has been artfully fomenting for years. Mr. Boulud has earned the right to keep working in that groove as long as he likes, but it's strange to find a young chef at a new, high-profile destination doing it when others around the city are pushing ahead with contemporary interpretations of French cuisine. And when Manhatta turns to the classics, its use of French idioms seems skin-deep compared with Laetitia Rouabah's light touch and sophisticated technique at Benoit , or Marie-Aude Rose's painstaking elevations of cafe cooking at La Mercerie , or Daniel Rose's intelligent, neoclassical excavations of silver-cloche cuisine at Le Coucou . Where Le Coucou brought back quenelles as helium-light pike dumplings in dizzyingly rich lobster-brandy sauce, Manhatta turns them into quivering balls of pudding distantly scented with seafood. Of all the ways a modern chef might grapple with cassoulet, the sublimely burly Languedocian assault on the digestive system, upending it over a crisp and golden chicken paillard has to be one of the strangest. Manhatta isn't the first restaurant to update veal blanquette with meat that's roasted rather than stewed, but the sauce is so blandly milky that it's hardly there. And while modern desserts can stray into savory territory more than they did in Escoffier's day, a vanilla soufflé with butterscotch sauce probably shouldn't taste salty. Some of this was dispiriting, but I never got up from the table in a bad mood. There are grace notes throughout the restaurant, like the dark, shiny little canelés that show up with dessert. This being a Union Square Hospitality production, the servers seem to be trained mind readers. A pair of the mismatched binoculars scattered around the restaurant materialized just when I was trying to locate the clock tower in the Consolidated Edison Building; before I'd had a chance to point out a fruit fly in my wine (did it ride up with me in the elevator?) a sommelier spirited the glass away and brought a fresh one. Mr. Meyer was probably right to take a dialed-down approach to the top-floor restaurant genre. It dates from a more innocent age, when people could look at the financial district's unblinking grids of lighted windows as the bland face of high-stakes cheating that we've come to recognize from "Margin Call" and "Billions." At the time of the financial crisis, Manhatta's building was the headquarters of JPMorgan Chase -- a relatively minor player in the three-card-monte game of mortgage-backed securities, but a player nonetheless. Ten years have gone by, but it's still too soon for revolving dance floors. Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram , Facebook and Pinterest . Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice . 